The South African Communist Party (SACP) is drawing a line in the sand against the abuse of state institutions to pursue factional battles, SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande said yesterday.Speaking at the launch of the SACP s annual Red October campaign in Sebokeng, Gauteng, Nzimande said the communists would tackle what it believed was the trend of state organs targeting politicians for partisan ends. We are today drawing a red line and we call upon the people of South Africa, especially the workers and the poor, to stop this rot and abuse of state organs for purposes of serving narrow accumulation agendas, Nzimande said.He said the party would tackle the matter with the same fervour it defended President Jacob Zuma in his 2009 corruption case that was dropped when the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said there was meddling in the prosecution process. As the SACP, we are prepared to fight this scourge in the same manner as we fought in defence of comrade Jacob Zuma some 10 to 13 years ago when we believed state organs were being used to pursue narrow political agendas. If we do not do so, all of us will be in the queue of being harassed for narrow political reasons. Nzimande urged Cosatu to close ranks behind the SACP in its fight against the phenomena of corporate capture. The SACP calls upon Cosatu in particular, and organised workers in general, to firmly cement their alliance with the SACP around waging a principled fight and struggle against the corporate capture of the state. Corporate capture of the state only serves to undermine the interests and struggles of the workers and poor of our country. Nzimande switched his focus to the death of Clive Derby-Lewis, who was jailed in connection with Chris Hani s murder. He said the SACP would continue to rally behind the family of Hani. The SACP is often criticised that it is not willing to let off the matter of the murder of comrade Chris Hani, even by some within our movement. Instead what we would not let go is the whole truth surrounding the murder of comrade Chris Hani. As the SACP, we continue to express our solidarity with comrade Limpho Hani and her family. Nzimande said the ANC s loss of key metros in the local government elections was a result of the alliance not listening to their constituencies. The opposition parties never gained any significant new votes. The problem is that our own voters stayed away. Why? Among other reasons they felt that the ANC, and the ANC-led alliance, were no longer listening or taking them seriously. This is an important lesson to take to heart and for our movement to undertake very serious introspection. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za