The new multimillion-rand, state-of-the-art and energy-efficient City of Johannesburg Council Chamber is expected to open its doors at the start of 2017.According to Helen Botes, Chief Executive of the Johannesburg Property Company (JPC), which is driving the R280-million project, construction work will be completed early next year. The new chamber, at the Metro Centre in Braamfontein, is expected to be ready for occupation and use in the New Year. This building was designed to be iconic, unique, state-of-the-art and in keeping with a bench-marked smart and world-class paperless system in line with Johannesburg s vision of a smart city. It is intended to be a landmark for the city, Botes said. The chamber was meant to open in August. It was a very ambitious target. When we started we had wanted the first council meeting after the [2016] local government elections to be held there. It was JPC s intention to have completed the project in 11 months. [But], realistically, a building of this magnitude takes 20 to 24 months to construct. There were specifications that had to be approved and JPC had to consult extensively. The bespoke elements were windows, audio visual equipment and seating, she said. The new council chamber has already received a five-star Green Star SA-certified design rating in the public and education building (PEB) category.According to WPS sustainability consultants, this is the first municipal building in the country to be rated under the PEB tool.The project is part of the City s Space Optimisation Programme, which seeks to optimise space and improve efficiencies and service delivery. Designed like a transparent glass drum, the chamber has an unimpeded visual link between indoor and outdoor. This connection is one of the core values of a lekgotla and embodies the fundamental principles of our democracy, transparency and accountability, says Botes.The green building has also been designed to absorb storm water into the surrounding piazza, where it will be filtered and slowly released into storm water drains. The final design represents an environmentally friendly building that supports the health and well-being of its occupants, said Botes.The chamber will be adorned with uniquely South African artistic totems. In May this year, JPC hosted workshops in all seven regions and asked residents to design totems that best-represented their communities. The response was overwhelming, with 500 entries received. Out of this, 135 made the final cut. The express purpose of the competition was to tell unique stories of Johannesburg communities in visual form, says Botes.