&nbsp;South Africa s elite crime fighting unit, the Hawks, are now investigating the diversion of almost R60m.The money was allegedly paid by one of Africa s richest tobacco dealers, Tribert Ayabatwa, as a settlement of outstanding taxes.Three weeks ago The New Age broke the story that Ayabatwa was made to believe he was paying the settlement of outstanding taxes on his cigarette manufacturing business. Suspended second in command at SARS, Jonas Makwakwa signed the deal on behalf of the revenue authority.The case arose from a 2009 non-disclosure settlement agreement signed by the Rwandan born Ayabatwa and SARS after years of litigation in East London. Now, in a letter to the executive director of Corruption Watch, SARS commissioner Tom Moyane confirms that the Hawks are now probing the case. I wish to inform you that I have duly taken note of the newspaper article Tax Money Diversion which appears on The New Age newspaper dated October 24, 2016, alleging approximately R60m. Consequently and on the 25th dispatched a letter the Hawks requesting that the matter be included in their current investigation against Mr Makwakwa, his letter to David Lewis reads.Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi also confirmed the development. Our anti-corruption unit has registered an enquiry into all the allegations. It is still ongoing and unfortunately we cannot get into the details at this stage, Mulaudzi said. Mastermind Tobacco South Africa (MTSA), owned by Ayabatwa, was the third biggest manufacturer in the highly competitive cigarette market and employed about 200 people.Its tax obligations amounted to R10m a month before its demise, which it claims was caused by SARS rogue unit investigators. In terms of the settlement, Ayabatwa and SARS settled for R60m. But of the amount, only R3m was paid to Sars and R57m was paid into a trust account of Grahamstown based lawyer, Naran Dullabh. The money was paid into the account NN Dullabh &amp; Co Trust Account.This week, Dullabh who ignored requests for comment for 21 days, through his partner Marius Woolmarans, said: We will revert to you as soon as circumstances permit. He further said: We are retrieving our files and records in order to provide you with the information relating to this matter. Documents seen by The New Age allege that Ayabatwa s troubles started when he rejected efforts by other cigarette dealers to buy his East London factory and any other tobacco business in South Africa in exchange for a business elsewhere for $10m (R135m). He rejected the offer.The documents allege that Ayabatwa was warned his rejection of the offer would be the end of his business .MTHOKOZISI DUBE AND SAMUEL MUNGADZE | news@thenewage.co.za