Interim Orlando Pirates coach Augusto Palacios does not need to prove his credentials as the man for the job in the long term.The veteran coach said he had no intention of taking the job on a permanent basis as he has far greater responsibilities in the Pirates development structures. Palacios has never been anywhere near the Bucs team, and did not interfere with the senior team.But on Wednesday he heeded the SOS call from club boss Irvin Khoza. This was after incumbent Muhsin Ertugral resigned in a huff in light of the shocking 6-1 league loss to SuperSport United on Tuesday. In essence, Palacios, who has had four stints in the job over the past 21 years, has been thrust into the job .And yesterday he gleefully narrated how he was sitting at home and the next moment he was addressing a press conference ahead of the Telkom Knockout quarterfinal. I don t have the ambition for the job, Palacios said. I don t go looking for jobs at Sundowns, SuperSport or Free State Stars. I have no ambition to coach. My duty at Pirates is development. And I ll do both the jobs now. From here I train the senior team and four in the afternoon I go train the development team at Mayfair. My passion will always be to develop. But if the club, which has been my home for 21 years, ask me to assist in this difficult situation, then I will do so. In his first task, Palacios has to see the Buccaneers through to the Telkom Knockout semifinals at the expense of Highlands Park tomorrow.But his biggest challenge could be to lift the gloom over the team and get the players focused on the job at hand.Despite the Mbombela disaster the Buccaneers aren t quite a team in crisis and a backlash could be expected when they host Highlands at Orlando Stadium. But the confidence levels would have naturally dropped, with the likes of probably Tendai Ndoro and Brighton Mhlongo the hardest hit. My job is to prepare the team for the next game. I never spoke about the previous coach, Palacios said. We never spoke anything about the 6-1. What we talk about is the way forward. The way I want the team to play is to impose the discipline aspect. It (6-1) can happen to anyone. Manchester City lost 4-0 against Barcelona and then beat Barcelona 3-1. I need to motivate and encourage the players. Similarly, Highlands have gone through a rough patch and are only just starting to pick themselves up.KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA| kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za