The ANC in Parliament will take no part in the DA s legal wrangling with National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete, ANC parliamentary spokesperson Moloto Mothapo said yesterday.Mothapo was commenting briefly on the DA mulling to take legal action following Mbete s failure to schedule the party s motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma, said the matter would be better left to the DA and Mbete to handle. It s a matter between the office of the speaker and the DA, he said.Mothapo s comments come against the background of the DA chief whip John Steenhuisen expressing his exasperation that DA leader Mmusi Maimane had written 18 days ago to Mbete, informing her of the DA s intention to table the motion in terms of Section 102 of the Constitution and Rule 129 of the National Assembly. NA Rule 129 is clear about the urgency with which a motion of no confidence in president should be scheduled.Section 2 states: The speaker must accord such motion of no confidence due prioirity and before scheduling it must consult with the leader of the government business and the chief whip, Steenhuisen said.He said that the delay taken by Parliament to respond to the matter was untenable. The delay which has dogged this motion has been raised numerous times, to no avail. Steenhuisen charged that Mbete reneged on an agreement to have the matter debated on November 10. Indeed, Mbete raised the matter right at the start of the National Assembly programming committee on Thursday, November 3, by assuring all those assembled that the request would receive prompt consideration. In reply, my deputy Mike Waters proposed the November 10 sitting as an ideal opportunity for the debate, which prompted little opposition. Steenhuisen said he was stunned by the fact that the debate was left out of Parliament s programme for the week.Last week DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the party had received provisional confirmation that the no-confidence debate would take place in the National Assembly on Thursday.He has been lobbying ANC members of Parliament to vote against Zuma next Thursday.He said the DA did not ask for an impeachment motion because for it to be passed would require a two-thirds majority. A simple motion of no confidence relies on a simple majority. Maimane said one of two scenarios was possible next week. One is that the ANC unites against us. That s perfectly normal. There are some people with some backbone who will vote against and I hope those emerge because it will be reigniting the spirit. Asked if the DA should not wait until the Judicial Commission of Inquiry recommended by Madonsela had been formed and completed its work, he said SA and South Africans havd lost confidence in President Zuma. That s why they are marching against him. And you must give an effect to that if you are a decent and an honest member of Parliament, Maimane said.Last week the DA announced several steps it would take against Zuma, including a motion of no confidence debate in Parliament, and laying criminal charges against him, members of his Cabinet and senior civil servants.The party will press criminal charges against President Zuma under the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act.It also called on Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown to resign.The same demand was made of Mineral Affairs Minister Mosebenzi Zwane. The DA said it would lay charges against Zwane for using his position to influence a contract.Maimane also called on Parliament to establish an ad hoc committee to deal with Thuli Madonsela s report into state capture and ensure accountability.Bonolo Selebano and Dennis Cruywagenbonolos@thenewage.co.za