Former president Thabo Mbeki and ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said yesterday that recalling president Jacob Zuma would not resolve the crisis in the ruling party.In an interview with Tregernomics, a politics and economics blog, Mbeki said he did not believe Zuma should quit and that the ANC s national executive committee (NEC) should take collective responsibility for its internal problems. No, I don t. There are wrong things that are happening with the ANC, but I think it s the fault of the collective leadership. For instance, the ANC has the NEC, a body that takes decisions for the ANC between the conferences where the whole party meets, and that is the body that must take responsibility for what s gone wrong. Even if you removed Zuma, let us say just hypothetically, it would change nothing if you didn t change the NEC. So you need to look at the whole NEC, the decisions and actions they have taken and not taken. It is not just a matter of looking at the president of the ANC, I think it is basically a matter of looking at the NEC, which includes the president, to see what to do, Mbeki said.Mantashe echoed Mbeki. He told The New Age recalling Zuma was not a solution to the ANC s woes and Zuma could not take sole responsibility for the ANC lurching from crisis to crisis. If we disagree with one issue they are raising about the president stepping down, that is not the right way of doing things, we disagree with the approach they are using because they become part of the #ZumaMustFall movement, Mantashe said.He said Zuma should not shoulder the blame for the ANC s and broader society s socio-economic challenges. If people think the only solution to all the ills of society in South Africa is the recall or stepping down of the president, we will disagree with that as the ANC. We are not a one-item movement, we are a liberation movement that deals with a whole range of issues, he said.Mantashe also said the ANC should set its gaze beyond Zuma s presidency to turn around its misfortunes ahead of the 2019 general elections. If you listen to the message we issued on OR Tambo last week, one of the things we raised was that let s demystify the belief that this is the first and worst chaos. We have a conference at the end of next year, we should be working on ensuring that conference will become a watershed conference. We want to start discussing what the ANC will look like after Zuma, he said.Meanwhile, one of Cosatu s largest affiliates, the National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) yesterday called for Zuma to step down before his term ends in 2019 and for the ANC to replace him with his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa.It said: Everything considered, including the deepening socio-economic crisis, lack of strategic oversight and leadership in the government, declining hope among our people and the ever-swirling scandalous revelations of corruption, Nehawu has come to the conclusion that it can no longer be denied that the leadership of President Jacob Zuma in the government is now untenable. Nehawu also said that while Zuma could not be solely blamed for the challenges in the country, his departure would assist in uniting the ANC. Nehawu calls on comrade Jacob Zuma to take the honourable and courageous decision in the interests of the ANC and our people by ensuring that by the time the ANC goes to the general elections in 2019 he is no longer the head of state. Indeed, as part of its decision to overcome challenges of factionalism and in the interests of unity and cohesion, we call on the national leadership of the ANC to take a unifying decision on his succession as the president of SA. In this regard, the NEC calls on the ANC to invoke the precedent practice whereby Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa would succeed comrade Jacob Zuma, Nehawu said.-Bonolo Selebano