The ANC s crisis trajectory will result in the party losing its appeal ahead of the 2019 general elections, Cosatu deputy general secretary Solly Phetoe said yesterday.Speaking on the ANC s national working committee (NWC) meeting week, Phetoe said the ANC could ill afford another talk shop that would yield no results. He said if the ANC s corruption scandals continued, the party could lose power in 2019. The risk is that we ll lose political power, we ve lost some political power in the municipalities and we are going to lose the little economic power we have, Phetoe said.He said that as a point of departure, the ANC should tackle former public protector Thuli Madonsela s state capture report as a matter of urgency. In the last political council meeting, the president said we must add another four or five days to talk about these issues and find a solution but it is the ANC itself that does not have time. So when they have the NWC tomorrow, they must talk about the unity of the alliance. Phetoe s comments come ahead of the ANC s national working committee meeting in the wake of Madonsela s state capture report.Responding to opposition parties calling for President Jacob Zuma to face criminal charges, Zuma said at the weekend that he was not afraid of going to jail because he had been jailed during apartheid.Phetoe slammed the misuse of public funds by public officials in their pursuit of unwinnable court cases after Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen and Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane failed in bids to interdict the release of Madonsela s report. They must stop blaming other organisations for their challenges and focus on the current factions facing the ANC and these court processes that are taking place every time and again. These are the things that make people lose hope in the ANC. We talk about unity in the alliance but there s no action, we only speak in theory. Do you know how many alliance summits have been called and none of the resolutions of the alliance summits were implemented, he said.Phetoe switched his focus to the snail s pace taken by the government to implement the national minimum wage.He said that the years of haggling between the government, business and labour on the matter was untenable. We have been talking about the national minimum wage for two years now and we expect the ANC as a governing body to lead and give direction. We have also been hearing that they ll table an amount of less than R3000, we ll never accept that as Cosatu, he said.Phetoe, making reference to Cosatu s campaign in Tzaneen, Limpopo, at the weekend to protect vulnerable farm workers, said Cosatu was able to face the challenge in the absence of its former affiliate, the Food and Allied Workers Union. It will not be difficult, after Fawu decided to leave we ve had many congress resolutions to merge the South African Clothing and Textile Workers Union and the South African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers Union into one super union, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za