South Africa s mining production in September 2016 rebounded, increasing by 3.4%y/y versus a lift of 0.1% in August, after contracting 11 consecutive months while manufacturing for the same period remain unchanged at 2.2%, latest Stats SA data revealed yesterday.Globally, mining companies are facing a series of economic, financial, and operational challenges, and South African mining companies are not different as they also account for uniquely local issues with profound operational implications. On a quarterly basis, mining production rose by 1.5% seasonally adjusted in the third quarter of 2016, which compares to the rise of 4.8% seasonally adjusted in the second quarter. As the quarterly seasonally adjusted mining production measure is used to calculate the sector s contribution to GDP, it suggests that its contribution to the third quarter GDP 2016 was still positive but smaller than in the second quarter. In the second quarter of 2016, the improvement in the mining production was a significant positive contributor to the recovery in GDP, Kamilla Kaplan, group economist at Investec, said. She highlighted that for the remainder of the year, mining production is likely to remain restricted by relatively weak global economic growth prospects. Suppressed global demand weakens the prospects for further significant commodity price recoveries in the near term. These external developments are overlaid by domestic challenges pertaining to elevated operating costs, infrastructure constraints and policy and regulatory uncertainty. At the same time, manufacturing, which is closely intertwined with mining remain unchanged in the same period, as the sector recorded no growth in September, with experts calculating that the outlook for 2017 remains murky. On a seasonally adjusted basis, total output rose by 1.5% m-o-m in September but contracted by 1.3% q-o-q in the third quarter. Nedbank economics team said the downside risks to the world economy have probably increased given mounting popular opposition to free trade and growing public support for closed borders as reflected in Britain s decision to leave the EU and the US s recent election of controversial Republican candidate Donald Trump as the 45th president. Consequently, global growth is likely to disappoint, limiting the rate of recovery in international commodity prices. At the same time, local supply conditions are expected to remain difficult, it said. business@thenewage.co.za