THE case against 63 Etwatwa community members accused of vigilante killings has been withdrawn but investigations are continuing.Etwatwa police spokesperson Capt Phello Mothapo said there was insufficient evidence as to who had been responsible for killing two suspected members of the OVL gang and leaving their bodies near a railway line two weeks ago. However, investigations are continuing because we want to link (the suspects) them to the killing. We are presently looking into each and everyone s story so that we can establish who did what, because some say they burnt the bodies but we want to establish exactly who poured the petrol and who lit the match, Mothapo said.He said once evidence was collected, all those who were arrested would be recalled to court. Mothapo said the situation in the area had calmed down since the killings. We have intensified patrollers in the area and community members have been holding meetings and collecting donations to assist with the burial but I am not sure when the funeral might take place, Mothapo said.4The 63 members of the community who were arrested for their involvement were supposed to have appeared in the Benoni Magistrate s Court on Friday on charges of public violence, possession of dangerous weapon and assault with grievous bodily harm but the case has been put aside for now.Police engaged with the community members yesterday to deal with the situation and members of the community were warned not to take the law into their own hands.The Benoni Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Reza Patel said they had a meeting with the community members to find out the root of this gangsterism in the area. There are people behind this who are using the youngsters to push their own agenda. The OVL was formed by the CPF working with the police a long time ago to sort out issues at ground level within the community but people have hijacked it and used it for their own violent agendas, Patel said.He said the community had been coming forward to them with information that might help to find a way forward. Yes, there is gangsterism in the area and the community has taken to violence to deal with it. We do not encourage them to take the law into their own hands. The situation has calmed and the area is quiet and we are hoping it will remain the same. We will continue to engage with the community, he said.He said it was sad that young people were used in that. They target them because they want action and ask no questions so it s easy to use them to do bad stuff, but when we want them to do good, they don t want to be involved, Patel said.&#8211;NONDUMISO ZWANE