&nbsp;While the ANC yesterday welcomed Thuli Madonsela s State of Capture report, a sometimes emotional Eskom CEO Brian Molefe slammed the former public protector for ignoring information supplied to her and failing to afford the victims of her report enough time to respond to allegations.The tough-talking Molefe said Madonsela had painted him with a corrupt brush without offering him a chance to give his side of the story on Eskom s arrangements with the Gupta-owned Tegeta Resources regarding its coal deals. We gave the public protector 132 files in boxes explaining the prepayments to Tegeta and other companies we have prepaid in the past. Then we never heard from her again. Madonsela cancelled the meeting with me and the team, he said. Molefe said Madonsela later sent a list of questions. We gave the very detailed response that she sought, a day before she finalised the report, Molefe said.He said he was being vilified for not acceding to mining giant Glencore s demands to pay the company R540 a ton for coal, which was the beginning of his current problems. Maybe the PP s report would have found me guilty of favouring Glencore (had we agreed to pay them what they demanded). I don t think my board or my minister or the president should resign because I didn t give Glencore the contract for R540m, Molefe said.The then-Glencore owned Optimum Coal Mine was placed under business rescue after Eskom and its parent company Optimum Holdings failed to renegotiate a coal sales agreement. Glencore said it could not drive a profit from selling coal to Eskom at the agreed sales price of R150 a ton and proposed doubling it, but Eskom rejected this.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa welcomed the report, saying: This report provides a concrete basis for the ANC and society in general to discuss the allegations and deal with their outcome. Kodwa said the allegations of state capture not only threatened to dent the image of the country but also debased the integrity of the ANC.Referring to an ANC NEC decision to consider conducting lifestyle audits on its members, Kodwa said: The national officials of the ANC will also be making declarations of all their interests to the secretary general.These are some of the immediate initiatives the ANC is undertaking as concrete action to expose and root out corruption wherever it rears its head. Meanwhile, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, who has also been fingered for being captured , said: I know the contents and the accusation that the Guptas appointed me (as a minister) is just nonsense. Zwane said he would cooperate with a judicial commission of inquiry. This is so that we talk on conclusive matters, we do not want to talk about apparently or seemingly, it will be a waste of time, said the minister.Constitutional law expert Prof Pierre de Vos said despite procedural objections raised by some fingered in the report, there was a prima facie case. So far nobody has challenged the factual findings or claims in the report so, yes, there needs to be a situation where the commission forces people to come and answer to the allegations. If they can t, then it means that they would be a breach of the Executive Members Ethics Act or the Corruption Act, he said.news@thenewage.co.za