Gauteng residents should brace themselves as municipalities tighten the screws on water wasters after calls to use water sparingly have fallen on deaf ears and the country continues to grapple with the worst drought in decades.Ekurhuleni will from today implement water rationing from 9pm to 5am in a bid to reach the 15% water saving target set out by the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS).If this strategy does not work, city spokesperson Themba Gadebe warned they would extend the water rationing to daytime. Tshwane municipality said water use in the city was still too high and reservoirs could not maintain levels. Reservoirs in Soshanguve north of Pretoria have run dry due to high consumption. The reservoirs need time to fill up until the restriction is lifted and residents are therefore requested to please restrict their water use so that the reservoirs can fill, city spokesperson Lindela Mashigo said.Water tankers are supplying water around the 11 sections affected by the water shortage in the area. The city has also warned that the reservoir in Mabobane north of Gauteng was at a critical level.Water shedding started in the area on Saturday, and this is expected to continue until the reservoir level normalises. Gauteng municipalities are now receiving 15% less water from the province s largest water utility, Rand Water. The South African Weather Service s Lucky Ntsangwane recently said South Africa required good rains to break its worst drought since 1997. We are still in a drought situation and the recovery from it is expected to be slow. We need to receive constant good rains for about two years in order to experience relief from the drought, he said.Seven major dams countrywide have almost run dry, with levels lower than 10%, leaving large industrial water users, agriculture, schools and municipalities in a quandary.Three North West dams Ngotwane, Lindleyspoort and Swartrugens Dams are below 2.8% while Klein-Maricopoort in North West is at 9.8%. Limpopo dams Glen Alpine and Muchedzi are at 1.1% and 1.9% while Mpumalanga s Ohrigstad Dam is at 2.3%. We desperately needed rain by September, but the weather conditions did not allow for that, DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said. Big corporates considered as strategic water users Sasol, Eskom and SABMiller have all expressed concern at the looming crisis.Water requirements for Sasol s South African operations increased from 135.5 million cubic metres in 2015 to 138.6 million cubic metres this year. Water is a critical feedstock, primarily used for steam generation, process cooling and the production of hydrogen, Sasol spokesperson Alex Anderson said. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said they were implementing dry-cooling technology on power stations. Ratau said the department was engaging the corporate world and had come up with initiatives aimed at averting the crisis.Mthokozisi Dube and Lillian Selapisanews@thenewage.co.za