Stuart Baxter has described SuperSport United s 6-1 hammering of Orlando Pirates as his best match ever in South African football.Even the Nedbank Cup final when SuperSport defeated Pirates 3-2 in May to lift the title doesn t come close to the one they dished out on Tuesday night at Mbombela stadium.At half time, Matsatsantsa a Pitori were trailing 1-0 through a Tendai Ndoro goal but produced magic to score six goals in the second half and hand Pirates their humiliating defeat. I thought it was one of the best performances I have had in South Africa, Baxter said. The lads worked really hard, they did what we asked and they should get masses of credit. I was really pleased that Ronwen Williams saved the penalty because it would have taken a bit of the gloss off the second half.It was a fantastic save. He is an excellent goalkeeper. I m delighted. To be fair, I was not happy at halftime because I thought we were worth at least going in equal, but we gave up a silly goal and Pirates took full advantage. A goal by man of the match Reneilwe Letsholonyane was reinforced by a brace by Michael Boxall while Thuso Phala, Jeremy Brockie and Bradley Grobler also chipped in to hand Baxter his biggest victory ever in the PSL. In my dreams it would have been very nice but you don t think about beating Chiefs, Pirates and Sundowns, the top teams, 6-1. We know we can beat them but it s a bit of a fairy tale isn t it? After trailing at halftime, he revealed the words of inspiration that led to his team s second half demolition of one of SA s giants. I said to them, guys we have to believe that we can turn this around. We scored three goals against them in a cup final and we can do it again here. We have to make sure that we do what we said we will do before the game and they took that and went on to the second half and we outplayed them. They pulled together and implemented the game plan they believed in and all credit to them. United will be hoping to carry this momentum on to their Tshwane derby against Mamelodi Sundowns in the Telkom Knockout quarter-final at Lucas Moripe stadium on Saturday.NEVILLE KHOZA| nevillek@thenewage.co.za