It has been difficult to understand Muhsin Ertugral and his tantrums, or his emotional intelligence, which I think in my book even at a superficial level leaves much to be desired.I saw him on television, as the team was being hammered by a more polished and organised SuperSport United, as a head coach who depicted signs of unstable personality and easily flustered by football disaster .Football disasters are not rare occasions in the sport, they are daily occurrences, a lifeblood and even at the best of times can not be avoided.They spring without notice on the best of teams and coaches in the world including Barcelona, Manchester United, Real Madrid and some of the best football outfits in the world. Head coaches have special duties, besides preparing and coaching football teams. They also have a duty to support and encourage players when performances are poor or when teams lose form. It happened to Chelsea for a protracted period during the last English Premiership League season.The team that had in the previous season won the league championship, suddenly lost form and became sitting ducks even for the weakest sides in the league.Barcelona, one of the best teams in the world, is struggling at the moment and so is Manchester United and Chelsea. But coaches, both as team managers and counsel, must help the young players to deal with football disasters. Poor performances affect not only players but fans and throwers who invest a lot of money with the hope of making healthy returns on their investments.So it is not always easy.My favourite team is Barcelona and when they lose or play badly I am emotionally affected and die with them. I feel that things could have been different. But when they do well I get emotionally elated and feel good about myself and my team.Ertugral is not doing that. He is not dying and suffering with the team in times of difficulties and pain. He exonerates himself from blame and walks away, because walking away is the easiest option and, I daresay, the most irresponsible way a coach can behave. Of course it is true that coaches with integrity will resign when they do not deliver the goods. But they need, before tendering their resignation, to engage in a constructive discussion with the team s management and clearly spell out that they cannot justify earning huge salaries in light of poor performances.But you just don t walk away. I am not certain if any team in the country will have the appetite to employ Ertugral as a coach. His actions, walking away from Orlando Pirates this week immediately after a 6-1 drubbing, is a cowardly one and a disgrace from someone so experienced.JO-MANGALISO MDHLELA