President Jacob Zuma told ANC supporters in Kwazulu-Natal on Saturday that Members of Parliament (MPs) from opposition parties were no longer able to debate issues but using courts.&#8220;There&#8217;s no longer any space for democratic debate. The only space there is for court arguments by lawyers. That&#8217;s not democracy,&#8221; President Zuma said. President Jacob Zuma told supporters on Saturday he wasn&#8217;t scared to go to prison because he had been jailed during apartheid.&#8220;I&#8217;m not afraid of jail. I&#8217;ve been to jail during the struggle,&#8221; Zuma told a cheering crowd in his home Kwa-Zulu Natal province.President Zuma spent 10 years as a political prisoner on Robben Island with Nelson Mandela during Apartheid rule. The ANCYL notes the so-called State of Capture Report , loosely referred to as the State Capture Report. After going through this report, we remain convinced that the drama surrounding its release was quite unnecessary. In our view, this is a one-sided report, riddled with gossip, innuendo, hearsay, untested evidence to say the least. It is of grave concern that some of the key individuals implicated in this report were not even given the slightest opportunity to present their side of the story, ANC Youth League said. This behavior and style of execution of the Public Protector s duties is questionable and goes against the audi alteram partem rule , which is guaranteed in our Constitution. We cannot but question why the former Public Protector, Ms Thuli Madonsela, opted to conveniently finalise an incompetent and half-baked report, rushing to release her findings whilst she was fully aware that she had failed to conduct a fair and thorough investigation? Added the League.The Public Protector&#8217;s investigation stopped short of saying crimes had been committed, but recommended a judge take the investigation forward.Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela recommended in her remedial actions that Zuma appoints within 30 days a commission of inquiry, which should be headed by a judge and have the same powers to collect evidence as enjoyed by the public protector.This judge would also have the power to investigate all the issues using the record of Madonsela s investigation and report as a starting point. This judge must be selected by chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. The chief justice must furnish the name of this judge to the president. We further take a serious exception to the preferred scope covered by this report. We are of the view that any investigation into the litany of allegations and subsequent complaints of state capture before the Public Protector should have included an investigation into the decades-long state capture by the white monopoly capital. If former Public Protector s intention was to truly and comprehensively investigate and expose state capture in South Africa, how come is the published report silent on the role of white monopoly capital in capturing South Africa? This is particularly concerning when it is public knowledge that the Afrikaner Broederbond, aided by the Apartheid Regime, built its ill-gotten wealth through state coffers. It is not rocket science that to this day, the same community has continued to enjoy this ill-gotten wealth and still enjoys monopoly over every sector of our economy. It is therefore shocking and suspicious that the Public Protector would solely focus on individuals who don&#8217;t even own 1% of the economy! In fact, it begs us to ask the question of what is the real intention of this report? Evidently, the real intention of this report was not all to investigate state capture by the biggest and longest-serving capturers of our South African state, ANC Youth League National Spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said.The commission must report back to him within 180 days. Zuma must submit a copy with an indication of his intentions regarding the implementation of the findings to Parliament within 14 days of releasing the report.Parliament has also been ordered to review within 180 days the Executive Members Ethics Act to provide better guidance on integrity, including the avoidance and management of conflict of interest. This should clearly define responsibilities of those in authority regarding a proper response to whistle-blowing and whistle-blowers. Consideration should also be given to a transversal code of conduct for employees of the state. Zuma has also been ordered to ensure that the executives ethics code is updated in line with the review of the Executive Members Ethics Act.Mandonsela recommended Zuma, in conjunction with the national Treasury, should ensure the commission was adequately resourced.The ANC Youth League added: We further appeal to the newly appointed Public Protector, Adv. Busisiwe Mkhwebane, to also take the former Public Protector s shoddy work on judicial review as the current report may continue to undermine the Public Protector s Office. &#8211;Report by Mboneni Shabalala with Reuters.