Political coalitions by their nature are not anti-democracy but a feature at the epicentre of democracy, especially in countries where dominant party systems make it difficult for opposition parties to ascend to power.In South Africa, the ANC has closed space for opposition parties to ascend power for the past two decades, and so opposition parties must know how to play the game of coalition politics if they are to successfully challenge the ANC.The continued triumph of the ANC is made possible by lack of understanding of coalition politics by the country s opposition. Emerging political coalitions are somewhat worrying and one wonders whether they are intended to create viable and stronger opposition for the consolidation of democracy.Most are formed based on greed and opportunism and lately there are some driven by anger and vengeance. Political ideologies and service delivery programmes are not a consideration when coalitions are formed, and this proves that our opposition is weak, and as a result, democracy may be face a bleak future. On the eve of 2014 general elections, the DA entered into a coalition with Agang which lasted for four day, making it the worst political blunder in the history of South Africa s politics.The merger was not informed by any desire to strengthen democracy but informed by the DA s old strategy of swallowing smaller parties for its own survival. The failed political marriage between Zille and Ramphele tested our democracy in a bad way.The second so-called merger between DA and Independent Democrats which the governs the Western Cape is another morass, now some call it a coalition, I don t the ID no longer exists.Coalition should be understood in the context of rival political actors brought together either through the perception of a common threat or through recognition that their goals cannot be achieved if they work separately. This merger can happen prior or post-election time, but the important aspect is that parties involved do not lose their identity.Independent lost identity and became part of the DA. The collapsing of the party cannot be referred to as a coalition. Some people want to believe that the DA/ID merger yielded good results and is now governing well in the Western Cape. However, the people of Western Cape may hold a different view. It is no longer a secret that the DA is a white party and the ID was formed to provide The coloured community with a political home. However, after the so-called coalition between the two parties, the plight of the coloured community in the Western Cape is scary.Undoubtedly the DA wanted coloured votes to assist the party to govern Western Cape so that it can protect whites in the province. The Government of National Unity (GNU) and the tripartite alliance represent perfect examples of good coalitions. In these two coalitions, rules of the game were clearly defined with each party maintaining its identity, having its own constitution, ideology, colours and so forth.The coalition between the EFF and DA is a bomb waiting to explode, it is travesty of democracy and proves that South Africa lacks credible opposition. Surprisingly, even leaders of the EFF and DA are unable to explain what kind of coalition it is. Malema told the media that the EFF would vote with the DA but this did not mean it supported the DA. In all my political books I have never come across such a coalition and it is these contradictions which are interpreted as an affront to those who voted for the EFF. Firstly, Malema went into coalition discussions with both DA and the ANC where he put his conditions that had to be met by parties anticipating to coalesce with the EFF. When none of the two parties showed interest, he soon realised that his conditions were not making sense and immediately changed his tune. He said the EFF would not compromise its brand by entering into any coalition, on the contrary he later announced a coalition with the DA. This is an indication of confusion and complete lack of understanding of coalition politics. It also proved that this so-called coalition is only meant to serve the EFF elite and not the electorate. More than anything else it is an insult to the intelligence of the voters.It is no coincidence that the main opposition, the DA, is at the epicentre of all these unholy political marriages in the country. The DA does this for its own survival. Since its inception as the Progressive Party in 1959, the DA has maintained a similar strategy of swallowing struggling smaller parties in order to survive under the guise of coalition. The name Democratic Alliance represents a number of political parties which died to give life to the DA. From 1959 when it was founded, the DA has changed name six times.The tendency of opposition party leaders to begin and conclude coalition agreements at an elite level, without involving their constituencies is a problem. Most of the time these agreements ignore policy dialogue that would ascertain that even if parties do not share the same policy vision, they can still work together. The reality is that opposition parties have lost ground in forming any kind of credible coalition in South Africa as they either lack understanding of coalition politics, or put the interest of the party elites ahead of the will of the electorate. This is a lifeline for the ANC.Sibusiso NhlangothiSibusiso Nhlangothi is a senior government employeee and a political analyst. He writes in his personal capacity