The National Student Financial Aid Scheme hopes to root out fraud in the awarding of bursaries and loans through its centralised system.The scheme previously had representatives at universities and students would submit their documents there and that allegedly opened up room for fraud as some would submit false documents. For its online centralised system, NSFAS is working with most government departments and agencies including the South African Social Security Agency to verify applications before awarding financial assistance.Yesterday NSFAS CEO Msulwa Daca said the online system had a lot of advantages and its most important one was to deal with fraud and corruption. We are aware of challenges that our students encounter every year during the registration period. We want to resolve this problem through the new system. Registration fees will be paid early for our students in 2017, he said.Daca said that students would not be required to apply for funding every year as their details would be kept on the system throughout their course of study unlike previously where students had to prove that they were poor and in need of assistance every year.Daca has also called on the more than 600 000 matrics now writing final examinations to apply for funding. We are concerned that the number of applications received from Grade 12 pupils is very minimal. Most applications we have received are from university students. This is a concern because the reason for the early opening of applications is to be able to assess all applications early and communicate with the applicants before January, Daca said.He said that the scheme had received more than 195000 applications since August and had a budget of R14bn to assist poor students next year. Daca also said that the scheme had joined forces with Vodacom to avail its 81 ICT community centres around the country to assist those who do not have access to internet with applications. He said pupils who wish to apply would be granted free access. Our partnership is an extension of our support for educational teacher training centres and our facilities will be fully maximised to support NSFAS online applications for the 2017 academic year, said Vodacom executive head of corporate affairs Tshepo Ramodibe. Applications for 2017 close on November 30.Batandwa Malingo batanwan@thenewage.co.za