Four members of the newly formed North West consumer court took oath of office amid strong approval from community members who expect protection against unscrupulous business people.The team is led by experienced jurist advocate John Nkomo as chairperson and other members are Jacob Kgomongwe and Paul Hlahlane. are lawyers in their own right. Advocate Johannes Strydom will serve as an alternative member.After they took oath at the Matlosana municipal chambers in Klerksdorp, the four members pledged to fast-track the resolution of cases that will be referred to the court by the finance, economy and enterprise development (FEED) department s consumer affairs unit. Our focus will be on cases that consumers and businesses could not reach amicable solutions to after the investigation by the department. All businesses will be obliged to implement the decision taken by the court, advocate Nkomo said. Before the swearing-in ceremony, FEED MEC Wendy Nelson led a consumer compliance inspection exercise in Klerksdorp central business district.It was done in partnership with the police, departments of Home Affairs and Labour, the National Regulator for Compulsory Specifications and the municipal environmental health practitioners.The operation resulted in which one business was closed and several others fined due to non-compliance with the Consumer Protection Act and food and safety legislation. I urge consumers to be alert when they buy goods as many businesses take advantage of consumers by selling expired goods. Through this court we envisage to finalise cases speedily within the department without referring recalcitrant transgressors to other regulators. The court will, among other things, grant orders declaring business practices to be unfair business practices and impose administrative fines on persons engaging in unfair business practices, Nelson said. She said prior to the establishment of the consumer court, the province has been using services of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. The operation of the court will see consumers getting redress and unscrupulous businessed ordered to cease unfair business practices. The department will embark on an awareness campaign to inform consumers about the operation of the court after public consultations on regulations is finalised by the end of August, Nelson said. The department has targeted October 1 as the first sitting of the court.elfast@thenewage.co.za