JONATHAN Rubain will stage the Golden Gospel Memories at His People Church in N1 City to celebrate the heritage of Cape Town s gospel legends on September 24. This Heritage Day event will honour gospel greats from the golden years and bring back the praise and, musical sounds of these multi-talented legendary artists. The show will feature amazing artists in the gospel music industry uniting together for a special one-night-only performance. The star-studded line-up will be hosted by gospel and jazz artist Jonathan Rubain who ll be joined on stage by exceptional musical greats including Lionel Petersen, Glen Robertson and Alban Petersen. Rubain started out playing gospel music in the local church and his community. Growing up, he was constantly surrounded by music. He began his journey with mentors such as Mac Mckenzie and Hilton Schilder and eventually discovered his passion for bass guitar. He now leads the Jonathan Rubain Band which was formed in 2007 and is a firm favourite at festivals in and around Cape Town. He has played with legends such as Errol Dyers, Robbie Jansen and the Cape Jazz Band. With this show, I d like to take the audience on a journey to see their favourite gospel artists from that golden era performing again. We want to honour and celebrate the legends of that time and journey with them through their favourite memories, Rubain said. Lionel Petersen is one of the leading gospel musicians in South Africa and is recognised in the industry for his R&amp;B and gospel sound. Over the years he has collaborated with artists such as Chevelle Franklin, Neville D and Judith Sepuma. He featured on the soundtrack of the 2008 Hansie Cronje film and was chosen as a judge during the first season of the gospel reality competition, Shine, in 2010. When Peterson is not performing on stage he is a preacher in his community. Glenn Robertson is another jazz and gospel performer who has become a stalwart in the industry. His musical influences came largely from that of Al Jarreau, Nat King Cole and Jimmy Messina. He was a founding member of the band Airborne and a leading vocalist for the Tony Schilder Trio. &#8211; TATENDA CHIRISERI