The beast of burden may not only be bred to pull carts in the future, but for dinner tooDONKEYS are a potent source of draught power and their value is likely to shoot up as some see meat opportunities.In most provincial towns, particularly as one drifts westwards, the likelihood of one seeing people riding on a donkey-drawn scotch-cart is very high.They are also used to carry heavy loads like river and pit sand to construction sites. Few animals have the endurance of a donkey hence they are loved by people in the province.Incidents of people eating the animal are isolated from community to community but the general perception is that the animal is not meant for meat.Those who keep them often allow them to roam freely and in some instances they become a hazard on the roads, especially at night. A retired former senior government official told The New Age of accidents so high at some point that the then Bophuthatswana president, Lucas Mangope, ordered donkeys killed. Many government officials lost their lives as they hit donkeys on the roads. This happened mostly when officials were going or coming to what is now the Dr Ruth Mompati district. There are so many villages along the road and donkeys would stray onto them, he said.Like now, people then often vandalised fences meant to keep animals off the roads. Mangope reached a point where the deaths were too much and donkeys had to be killed. Many people heeded the call and a considerable number of donkeys were killed. People would either throw away the carcasses or dig holes where they buried the slain animals, the man said.However, the animals survived the onslaught and in a democratic South Africa, donkeys seem to have a new role.Chinese from Henan province visited the province in October last year and they made a plea that the province supply them with donkey meat. It is not clear whether the request came as a result of knowing the concentration of the animals in the province.The provincial government has taken the request seriously and is contemplating breeding donkeys commercially.Premier Supra Mahumapelo said that moves were underway to gather information on how best to breed and fatten the donkeys and slaughter and pack their meat for export to China. Taken seriously, this project would tie in to government s villages, townships and small dorpies development so that rural people become a vital cog in our economic growth push, the premier said.Mahumapelo said the province sought to learn from countries like Botswana that at some point tried to export donkeys.Once feasibility studies are done, it is likely that commercial breeding of donkeys will begin and there is a likelihood the animals will be in enclosures so they do not become a menace on the roads.Finance, economy and enterprise development MEC, Wendy Nelson said it was not only the meat that can come from donkeys. There are studies to look at what the donkey s hide can be used for so that it is not just the meat. Once something comes up on this front, it means more opportunities are open and the donkey production industry will grow big, she said.Nelson said young people can benefit from employment opportunities that would come as a result of the donkey breeding exercise.A provincial delegation is expected to visit China this year to tie up several deals that would then give direction on this and other aspects of cooperation.&#8211;ELFAS TORERAI