THE Northern Cape arts and culture department says the legacy of Sol Plaatje, one of the best known struggle heroes against apartheid, should be passed onto younger generations so it will not forgotten.MEC Bongiwe Mbinqo-Gigaba will unveil a bust in honour of the struggle hero in Kimberley on Thursday.The celebrations will be held at the William Humphreys Arts Gallery and will include the launch of a national book that details the struggle and the people. Department spokesperson Conrad Fortune said as part of the common national effort the department would do its utmost to create access to a rich and productive life for the youth and all people of the country.He said they would be engaging in various activities on Thursday. The department will hand over books to the William Pescod High School as part of inculcating a culture of reading among pupils.He said they would also participate in the activities of the William Humphreys Art Gallery. Today, the department will visit the Witput Grange School where books will be handed over to 120 pupils.He said the department tomorrow would participate in a programme to promote the importance of reading in your home language .This they will do in partnership with local radio station XFM. We will move into area and engage the communities of the Sol Plaatjie municipality in this one, he said. What is important is that the books to be handed over to pupils at the respective schools are for them to keep and share with their family and friends at home. The reason for this is for them to own a book and share it. He said reading books in a home had a strong effect on the children. He said it boosted children s brain power, improved imagination and increased their intelligence. It also helped build vocabulary, increased productivity, improved cultural diversity and social cohesion and also economic empowerment and emancipation.Fortune said the department embraced the idea of inculcating a culture of reading and library usage. We do this by reaching out to the broader communities and specifically to the youth in terms of promoting libraries as an agent for change and development. By doing this we are deepening our democracy and helping to develop a people s culture. The pinnacle event will be held at the art gallery where Mbinqo Gigaba will be unveiling the bust of Sol Plaatje, he said.Fortune said the unveiling would be preceded by an array of activities at the gallery which included storytelling, toy libraries, wordathons and hip hop poetry for pupils from identified pre-primary, primary and secondary schools.-SMANGA KUMALO