More financial resources should be made available to the House of Traditional Leaders in the Northern Cape to made it function optimally.Speaking at the opening of the house in Kimberley yesterday, the Acting Premier, Norman Shushu said, in order to capacitate the house of traditional leaders it needed to be well-resourced. Shushu said work done by the house had been inadequate and as such, human resource challenges needed to be addressed as well as budgetary constraints. The house of traditional leadership does not have to be an antagonistic structure but complementary to the people of the government of the day. The house of traditional leaders is drawn towards people-centred development and geared towards improving the lives of the people, he said.Shushu said the government had to assess and strengthen the constitutional mandate of their role towards traditional leadership. Their role is to identify challenges faced by them and work at finding solutions that improve their lives, he said. Shushu said traditional leadership was formed before the ANC was established in 1912. When colonisers first arrived, they tried to firstly destroy the institution of traditional leadership and the traditional leaders of the time were the first to defend our dignity, our land and the customs of our people, Many tried to obliterate it and that is why they started with the San community namely, the !Xun and Khwe communities in the West coast.Mass murder happened to the traditional leaders even before the ANC was established in 1912, he said. Shushu said the government of the day would now have to capacitate the house and ensure that there were programmes that helped them achieve socio-economic emancipation and sustainable livelihoods.Former national chairperson of the house of traditional leaders, kgosi Simane Suping, said the political will to capacitate the house was lacking. I said this two years ago, that we have one national house, but some provinces are more capacitated than others. It is a problem that eats away at the self-esteem of traditional leaders. In other provinces, chiefs are given cattle, cars, houses, while the Northern Cape lags behind and for this, I blame political will, he said.Salga chairperson Willy Johnson said that in an effort to understand the pending challenges the house was facing, they would have to convene a conference for the house of traditional leaders.Johnson said he wanted members of the house to meet before the Salga conference, which will be taking place in October.Traditional leaders unresourced Shushu says traditional leaders are cash-strappedMORE financial resources should be made available to the House of Traditional Leaders in the Northern Cape to made it function optimally.Speaking at the opening of the house in Kimberley yesterday, the Acting Premier, Norman Shushu said, in order to capacitate the house of traditional leaders it needed to be well-resourced. Shushu said work done by the house had been inadequate and as such, human resource challenges needed to be addressed as well as budgetary constraints. The house of traditional leadership does not have to be an antagonistic structure but complementary to the people of the government of the day. The house of traditional leaders is drawn towards people-centred development and geared towards improving the lives of the people, he said. Shushu said the government had to assess and strengthen the constitutional mandate of their role towards traditional leadership. Their role is to identify challenges faced by them and work at finding solutions that improve their lives, he said. Shushu said traditional leadership was formed before the ANC was established in 1912. When colonisers first arrived, they tried to firstly destroy the institution of traditional leadership and the traditional leaders of the time were the first to defend our dignity, our land and the customs of our people, Many tried to obliterate it and that is why they started with the San community namely, the !Xun and Khwe communities in the West coast.Mass murder happened to the traditional leaders even before the ANC was established in 1912, he said. Shushu said the government of the day would now have to capacitate the house and ensure that there were programmes that helped them achieve socio-economic emancipation and sustainable livelihoods.Former national chairperson of the house of traditional leaders, kgosi Simane Suping, said the political will to capacitate the house was lacking. I said this two years ago, that we have one national house, but some provinces are more capacitated than others. It is a problem that eats away at the self-esteem of traditional leaders. In other provinces, chiefs are given cattle, cars, houses, while the Northern Cape lags behind and for this, I blame political will, he said.Salga chairperson Willy Johnson said that in an effort to understand the pending challenges the house was facing, they would have to convene a conference for the house of traditional leaders.Johnson said he wanted members of the house to meet before the Salga conference, which will be taking place in October.Nomusa Mvubu