A 42-YEAR-OLD Rustenburg man lost R370 000 of his pension money to bogus traditional healers who had promised to make him rich by multiplying his money.The man also lost his job after he was urged to resign since his ancestors were going to double the money. Police in North West have arrested two Ugandans aged 44 and 24 in connection with the swindle.The two will appear in the Rustenburg Magistrate s Court today charged with fraud and possession of suspected fraudulent documents.North West police spokesperson Col Sabata Mokgwabone said the pair was arrested on Friday following a tip-off. The arrest came after a 42-year-old man from Meriting, a few kilometres outside of Rustenburg opened a case with the police after being defrauded R370000 of his pension money. It is alleged that the victim started consulting the fraudulent healers in August last year after he saw a pamphlet advertising their services. It is further alleged that during one of the consultations, he was advised to resign because his ancestors were going to double his pension money, Mokgwabone said.He said after the man was convinced, he resigned from his job in December 2015 and withdrew all his money while the two suspects were waiting for him outside in a car. After withdrawing the money, he joined them and he was immediately shown two safes. He was told to put his money in one of the safes and lock it while being driven to his house. When he arrived home, he was given the other safe and was told not to open it until both traditional healers returned to perform the last ritual. However, after a few days without hearing anything from the traditional doctors, the family forced the man to open the safe. He opened the safe and he realised that there was no money inside, Mokgwabone said.It was at this point that the man knew he had been duped and decided to open a case.Mokgwabone said during their arrest, the two men were found in possession of fraudulent medical certificates and vehicle registration certificates among others. The police would like to urge members of the community who were conned in the same way to contact Const Tsholofelo Matube 082 772 6491 or 014 5904258, he said.-Elfas Toreraielfast@thenewage.co.za