Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa visited Extended Public Works Programme projects run by the Northern Cape government at the weekend.Ramaphosa said he had examined what he called the public employment programme and applauded the government for the job it was doing. He visited expanded public works programmes in Kuruman. This is an amazing programme started by the government. The workers on these programmes are diligent and gaining skills at the same time. There are road construction projects which ultimately empower those who are participating in the projects, he said.However, Ramaphosa said extended public works programmes were not permanent jobs but initiatives that gave young people a leg-up. Our government is not in the business of creating permanent jobs. We are in the business of empowering young people, making sure they have enough skills to build themselves.The idea of an EPWP programme is that it is shortterm and transitory, a stepping stone to move on to something better, he said.Ramaphosa said involving young people in EPWP programmes would enable them to establish their own businesses and improve their lives. I met a young woman who has a child who attends university. Her child might be studying with a bursary but this programme has allowed her to send money to her. Programmes such as this help put food on the table. Regarding the small stipends, Ramaphosa said the stipend was indeed too little and not sustainable. The stipend is meant to assist us get by, it is not a salary and people need to understand that, he said.He said the Northern Cape economy which is mainly reliant on agriculture and mining needed to transform. We need to diversify our employment sectors and ensure that people not only rely on the key sector industries for money but are able to diversify into other sectors of the economy, he said.He said employees on infrastructural projects also needed to run their companies and create jobs for others. He said employees needed to come together, get training through skills education training authorities and establish cooperatives.nomusam@thenewage.co.za-Nomusa Mvubu