Seven people, including two drug kingpins, were arrested after they were found to be selling and supplying drugs in Rustenburg.They are all expected to appear in the Rustenburg Magistrate s Court today .The two women and fi ve men were arrested in a day-long raid by the North West Directorate for Priority Crime Investigations , the Hawks. The operation started at 6am and ended about 7pm on Tuesday.Hawks head in the province, Maj-Gen Linda Mbana led a team from the drugs unit and they managed to recover dagga whose value is yet to be determined. We arrested two kingpins both women and fi ve men. The fi rst kingpin claims to be from Eastern Cape while the other is said to be from Limpopo. The fi ve other suspects all claim to be from North West province , Mbana said.She said the two kingpins owned top of the range luxury cars and they would face charges of dealing in dagga and money laundering. The other fi ve suspects face charges of dealing in dagga. The fi rst kingpin had three storages that were stashed with dagga while the second had two storages. In one of the houses raided we also found also found platinum concentrate, Mbana said.The raid in Rustenburg came after investigations by the drugs unit established by the national Hawks boss, Mtandazo Ntlemeza, in response to calls made by President Jacob Zuma in his state of the nation address . We took time to study drug abuse patterns in the province and Rustenburg showed an increase in dagga use, Mbana said. We discovered that it was not just one person supplying drugs but a number of them.The biggest worry was that the dagga was not only sold to adults but young children as well. The team from the newly established drugs unit gave impetus to the investigations, leading to us moving in for the catch yesterday.Raids will continue and we re happy with the progress registered so far. It appears that a sizeable number of houses have been drug dens and residents were urged to report such activities so that those supplying drugs c ould be brought to book. A team member said: At fi rst we could not get the kingpin but the boss lady kept pushing us.We did not only get our target but had the bonus of arresting the second kingpin. Drug abuse is a challenge aff ecting most communities in the province. The challenge is so huge that some school children are dropping out or failing their studies due to the harmful eff ects of drugs.In other areas like Mahikeng, residents have been up in arms with those selling drugs, especially nyaope and dagga. At some point residents had running battles with foreign nationals who they believed sold drugs in their communities. Residents have attacked and looted goods from some of the people targeted.Last weekend, a Nigerian man was killed and his car was set alight in a drug-related attack in Mahikeng s Golfview suburb.Mbana said the drug unit was going all out to ferret out all those supplying drugs in communities around the province.Elfas Torerai