Six bright pupils from different schools in the Northern Cape teamed up to compete in the national Aqua Endure contest and almost won. The pupils achieved second place after competing with 48 others from across the country.The pupils include Ramaune Cloete and Panduleni Mntu from Port Nolloth High School, Kerrin Klaaste from the Northern Cape High School in Kimberley, Tshiamo Maretela from Tetlanyo High School, Jennifer Booi from Vuyolwethu High School and Oratile Matsime from Northern Cape Technical High School.Provincial water education programme coordinator Andile Flatela said the pupils had to be doing maths and science subjects to participate in the programme. The pupils also have an opportunity to get a bursary but the bursary has specific conditions which the pupils must adhere to. In the competition, the pupils participate in maths and science experiments especially water-related activities. The activities included visiting water purification and waste water treatment plants, testing of water resources and drinking water quality sampling, Flatela said. Flatela said the pupils who participated from the Northern Cape were finalists in the competition and stood a chance to receive a full scholarship for a career in the water field based on their academic performance. These finalists will also be mentored by sector partners through their Grade 12 year and their tertiary studies to ensure that they are utilised fully within the sector, he said. Flatela said they had some success stories, with one student who participated in the programme and went on to work for the department after receiving a bursary. He also said many of the pupils went far in their careers and while some did not pursue water-related studies, they still remained in the maths and science fields. Kerrin Klaaste, 18, from Northern Cape High School said she decided to enter the competition because she stood a good chance of getting a bursary. This competition has given me a totally new experience and the best part is, I got to represent the province, Klaaste wants to study civil or mechanical engineering and thought what better way to improve her results but to participate in challenging activities as this? Oratile Matsime, 18, from Kimberley Technical School said he learnt about the programme from his mother who worked at another government department. Matsime said he also wanted a career as a civil engineer. I have always had a passion for buildings and drawings and knew this was the career for me. By participating in this programme I got to gain a better understanding of water, went inside laboratories and saw things through a microscope. I learnt about chemicals and test tubes and more about the practicality of using maths and science, he said. Tshiamo Maretela, 17, from Tetlanyo High School, said the competition allowed her to get rid of her shyness and pushed her to work with people. Maretela who also wants to study civil engineering said her confidence levels had gone up after participating in the programme.Maretela said while civil society needed people who built dams, geohydrologists determined whether it was safe for underwater life if a dam was built in a specific area. Geo-hydrology is a career which Jennifer Booi, 17, from Vuyolwethu High School wants to pursue. She said she had always been intrigued by life underwater. I found out about this career on the internet and I have been drawn to it ever since. My passion for geography pushed me towards this direction. I want to know about it and educate people about creatures living in water, she said.Nomsa Mvubu