Power utility Eskom s Northern Cape spokesperson Jolenne Henn said yesterday that illegal electricity connections were still continuing in several areas of the province despite numerous educational sessions with the communities.Henn said while many South Africans get their electricity legitimately, some still endanger their lives by opting for illegal connections.She said Eskom was running an educational workshop in the Western Cape but said the Northern Cape s turn will come. Henn said illegal connections often lead to serious and fatal injuries. An electricity connection is considered illegal when it is made to the Eskom network without Eskom s permission or by uncertified Eskom personnel, Henn said. Such a connection could either be to a mini sub-station or a neighbour s meter. In many cases, illegal connections end up with dire consequences as they expose both children and adults to great risk.Henn said they considered safety as one of their key priorities and wanted to make sure that all their employees, contractors, consumers as well as the general public were safe from these connections. As part of our commitment, we would like to implore our communities to help us eliminate the various hazards brought about by the unsafe use or connections of electricity. We want to avoid electricity-related injuries and fatalities in all our communities. Henn said Eskom conducted regular awareness campaigns such as customer forums, school visits, engaging with community leaders and community forums in areas where illegal connections were rife to have a coordinated approach in addressing this concern. Eskom also removes the illegal wiring but it is put up again as soon as the technicians leave the area. Eskom will continue to make communities aware of the practice of distributing electricity in this manner and the negative consequences. We also encourage citizens to become more active in reporting exposed, damaged or low-hanging power cables as well as illegal connections to 086 003 7566. We are appealing to people to be more cautious and to refrain from connecting electricity illegally. By remaining vigilant and acting responsibly, we can ensure that our loved ones and communities remain safe. Nomusa Mvubu