THE SACP in North West said it wanted convicted Chris Hani murderer Janusz Walus to remain in jail until he came clean about why the former communist leader was murdered.The SACP, the ANC, Cosatu and Sanco marched in Mahikeng at the weekend denouncing the court s move to release Walus on parole. We have been holding this march every April since 1993, the year when comrade Chris was murdered. This is partly in remembrance of him and a reminder to South Africans that they should not forget our freedom came because of the demise of Hani, SACP provincial chairperson Madoda Sambatha said.He said that at the time of Hani s death, talks for a political settlement had stalled but the National Party was forced to proclaim April 27 as elections day due to Hani s murder. We owe our Freedom Day to Hani and it is upon that basis that we reject any talk of parole for Walus.On the Truth and Reconciliation Commission records, Hani s killers were refused amnesty. This issue of him getting parole is rejected and we are happy that the justice department has indicated its intentions to appeal. This case should go all the way to the highest court of the land. We have a feeling that Walus has not fulfilled the commission s conditions. He needs to come out and tell us the motive behind the killing, Sambatha said.ANC provincial secretary Dakota Legoete also weighed in, saying that Walus should not be set free as long as he conceals information about the murder. It is our feeling as the ANC in the province that Walus does not deserve to be freed because of the information he still withholds. We have to be told the truth because the murder of comrade Chris had the potential to turn the country into a bloodbath, he said.The same sentiments were echoed by representatives of labour federation, Cosatu. Sanco provincial secretary, Packet Seaketso said there was a feeling Walus acted on a mandate and he has to speak out before he can be released. At this stage, we strongly oppose the release of Walus because there is a compelling need for him to come out clean. As Sanco, we feel that he was acting on a mandate and South Africans want to know all those who were behind the planning of the murder. The other reason is that until such time he speaks, no one can close the chapter on Hani s murder because we do not know what happened. Dimpho and her children are without a husband and father all because of Walus.&#8220;So the fact that he has spent the last 23 years behind bars does not discount the need for him to speak. We want to know why Hani was killed, he said.Sentiment was also expressed that there is a suspicion that some within the broad alliance family could be implicated in Hani s murder plot.elfast@thenewage.co.za-Elfas Torerai 