Concerned parents of children attending Tlhwahalang High School in Jankempdorp have raised concerns over the decision by the school to move their children to the newly built Valspan High School.The parents and pupils disrupted school for a week, urging the department of education to intervene and reverse the decision taken by the headmaster to move some of the pupils to the new school.The school was set to be opened together with Roodepan High School but due to the disruptions, the department of education was only able to open Roodepan High.Parents halted normal operations at Tlhwahalang High School and demanded the principal to explain why their children were being taken so far away.One parent, Bonnia Mongalane, 52, who lives directly across of the main entrance of Tlhwahalang said he did not understand why his child was being moved to a school so far from his home.Mongalane said parents had not been consulted about the relocation and said when he asked the principal, the ptincipal said he had sent letters home with the pupils. I, for one, have never received any letters from the school.The school never consulted me on any decision to relocate my child to Valspan. If the school collapses I can t possibly say my child goes there. There is no documentation of myself ever applying to the school, he said. The school governing body that we chose is nonexistent and we are suspicious about relations between the principal and one school governing body member who is closely linked to the principal, Mongalane said. Mongalane said the fact that parents were not consulted was a problem. My son presently attends Valspan High and what I want is for him to attend school next to where he lives. I don t know how the decision was made but I want it reversed, he said. Mongalane is one of the parents who spoke to the MEC of education to have his child returned to the school.Just like Mongalane, Johannes Motshabi, 35, who lives in Masakeng township in Jankempsdorp next to Valspan High School, said his child had been sent to Tlhwahalang High School while Valspan High School was within walking distance from where he lived. The principal merely swapped the pupils and managed to take those living near the school to a school that is further away from their homes, he said. I don t know who the school governing body members are.The school was not opened officially and we only heard that the school was opening on the fifth of this month. We only met the new principal on the fifth and that was the only consultation we ever had with the school, he said. I don t know how this decision was made but I want my child to attend the school closest to home, he said.Education MEC Martha Bartlett met with pupils and parents at the school late last week in an attempt to resolve the conflict. The MEC committed to investigate the matter and provide feedback relating to all concerns, her spokesperson said.Nomusa Mvubu