The memorial service in honour of the maestro of house music DJ Vusi Sikhupelo will be held on Thursday at Mayibuye Art Centre in Galeshewe.The DJ popularly known as DukeSoul died in hospital on Sunday night.His cousin Themba Sikhupelo told The New Age on Tuesday that the funeral will be held at ABC Cemetery in Galesheswe on Saturday. The memorial to honour our DukeSoul will be held at Mayibuye Art Centre at 4pm tomorrow, and the final send off will be on Saturdaymorning, Themba Sikhupelo confirmed.After the sad news went viral on social media, music producer Mobi Dixon said DukeSoul&#8217;s death was a loss for the music fraternity. Unfortunately, I never got to know DukeSoul personally. However, I am familiar with his music and from what I can tell, he was a very talented producer whose death is a loss to the greater house family, Mobi Dixon said.DukeSoul developed the knack for producing and composing music in 2009 at his home recording studio with his cousin Themba, who marketed and managed the DJ before his songs could even receive airplay. We were in his room and he just produced a song as he was just having fun around it. So I suggested he produce music. It started around late 2009 and in 2010 it became a habit. Then in 2011 he started taking his music seriously.&#8221;Sikhupelo owned a little known label called DukeSoul Productions.The Sikhupelo family said they appreciated the support showed by house music lovers during this devastating time.DukeSoul&#8217;s cousin praised individuals who visited the DJ while he was hospitalised. The family expects a high number of fans to attend the memorial to honour the musician. We appreciate the support that people have been giving to us, while he was in hospital. I believe people will continue and support DukeSoul Productions because we are to introduce an academy for young DJs and producers in honour of our fallen star. He loved his fans. I remember when he asked me to take a picture in our backyard after releasing his album called Home Made. He posted it on social media to thank the fans, Sikhupelo said.Sikhupelo began as Mavusana, then from there he called himself the Duke as he was receiving popularity. He then changed to his popular name &#8216;DukeSoul&#8217;. The cause of Sikhupelo&#8217;s death has not been revealed. At the moment I can&#8217;t say anything because even we as the family don t know yet. We haven t got time to talk to the doctor because we are in mourning, but what I know is that, it was a short illness, Themba said.DukeSoul died at the age of 28 in a Kimberley Hospital. He was admitted on April 1 after collapsing at the OR Tambo International Airport.-Hitekani Maimela