Top Treasury official Kenneth Brown told staff at his farewell function that he believed that the State Security Agency (otherwise known as the NIA) was probing him and other senior Treasury officials.Brown made this startling disclosure at his farewell function at which the Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan, was also in attendance. I said to the DG (director-general) that the national intelligence agency is investigating me and a number of us, he said. Brown seems to have left under a cloud with a pending Hawks investigation into suspicious payments into his home loan accounts.Now a document, authored by a group of concerned employees , has been circulating within the upper echelons of the Treasury s leadership which has raised fresh allegations of nepotism and fruitless expenditure against Brown who was the state s chief procurement officer.The document, titled Abuse of power, lack of governance including expenditure and appointments, which The New Age has seen, revealed that the Treasury s anti-graft fighter, left the institution with a litany of unanswered questions over his conduct at the helm of the office of the chief procurement officer (OCPO).This comes despite a staff meeting at the Treasury headquarters earlier this week, where Gordhan praised Brown. He hailed him as a pioneer and a model public servant .The group of employees charged that Brown bent over backwards, to the detriment of recruitment management systems, in earmarking a Treasury office manager as a potential chief director. The person s bid, however, came to naught due to a failed competency test which was allegedly spurned by Brown. It has since been brought to our attention that she had been selected as the potential chief director in the post and underwent a competency assessment which she dismally failed. Mr Brown profusely objected to this outcome. What exacerbates the matter even further is that she used to occupy a similar post with Mr Brown while he was deputy director in intergovernmental relations. One is inclined to question what the difference is between what the then commissioner of SARS Oupa Magashule did which resulted in his resignation with what Brown has done, the group said.The concerned employees blew the lid on what they described as questionable privilege that may be construed as wasteful expenditure . This was in connection to Brown being provided with bodyguards and a state vehicle at a cost to the public purse.They alleged further that Brown tried to have the same privileges extended to his wife Odette Brown, who is the sister of Margaret-Ann Diedricks, a former director general of the Water and Sanitation Department. The OCPO even went to an extent of requesting that these privileges be extended to his wife. It is also questionable whether he still receives the motor allowance which is part of his salary package while getting the chauffeur driven privileges, they wrote in the document.Some employees also lamented being victimised by being slapped with final written warnings for raising red flags within the office of the chief procurement officer. But Brown hit back in an audio recording of a staff meeting in which he vowed that he would not buckle under the weight of allegations by faceless informers .His remarks were a response to allegations that his wife s brother, Riccardo Diedricks used his proximity to (Kenneth) Brown to receive contracts from the provincial and national water and sanitation departments. If you find my name or my signature there, I am prepared to be publicly executed. I will hand myself over with that information to the Hawks, Brown said.He denied the claims made in a dossier submitted to the Hawks by the president of the Progressive Professionals Forum, Mzwanele Manyi, containing Brown s bank statements, which showed deposits to the tune of R1m being made into his home loan account.Brown said he had told a journalist that there was nothing untoward with the payments for two properties owned by himself and his wife, one at the exclusive Pebble Rock Golf Village in Pretoria and another in Struisbaai in the Western Cape. Those are my bank statements and that is my money, he said.The New Age emailed a set of questions about the staff allegations to Treasury spokesperson Yolisa Tyantsi last Thursday. As you might appreciate your enquiry would require us to engage those that would have information and or knowledge of the issues you are raising, Tyantsi said. Most people are on leave already. Depending on whether those around next week have knowledge of the issues you are raising, I am hoping to come back to you some time next week, she said. Tyantsi yesterday reiterated that she was not in a position to assist in the matter. Turn around times on responses are dependent on availability of people with information required. As indicated most people are on leave, she said.SSA spokesperson Brian Dube said that while he would not comment on an allegation that had not been put formally to the SSA, Brown had a right to his views. We are not going to police people s views. If someone believes in a particular view, it s not an issue for us, Dube said.Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said notwithstanding Brown s departure from the Treasury, the unit s probe into the CPO remained on course. The status of the investigation has not changed. We re still proceeding with the investigation, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za