Modisane Modise, 64, is marking 32 years in the broadcasting business this yearHERE is a man who has never applied for a job in his professional life, employers have always recruited or head-hunted him, all because of a unique gift a silken voice.Modisane Modise, 64, stands out as one of the best radio personalities of his generation. He marks 32 years in the radio business this year.A legend in his own right, Modise said he had the Almighty to thank for the voice and many other blessings that have come his way.Born in Mzimhlope, Soweto, in 1952, Modise started out as a boxer and school teacher before David Mothibi convinced him that gold was not in the boxing ring or the chalkboard, but in his voice. I did my primary and high school education in Soweto. I was active in sports and my interest was in athletics, soccer and boxing. I became a professional boxer in 1976 with 32 amateur fights and 12 professional bouts in the welter-weight division. By 1980 I was rated number 10 in that division. Precisely about that time, I was also a professional teacher and promoted to being a headmaster in my fifth year of teaching, he said.Back in Soweto, he used to be a programme director at beauty contests, a duty that captivated many due to his booming and polished voice. In 1981 I joined Radio Bop. This was a year after David Mothibi invited me to join broadcasting in Mahikeng. Mothibi had followed me during my days of compering different shows including beauty pageants. The money in broadcasting was attractive. I did not even serve my notice in teaching when I joined Radio Bop, then dubbed the station with the mind of its own. Again, my voice became an instant hit with the listeners. I did the morning drive show and became an instant hit with our target audience in Pretoria and Johannesburg. We were the first station to penetrate Soweto and the listenership continued to grow, he said.In 1985 Modise won an award as the best black voice in the country. As a result, I was sent to New York City, Philadelphia, Washington DC and Virginia to learn more from the radio stations on that side. I also had an opportunity to go to Uganda to help them to come up with a commercial radio station known as Sanyo. I had an opportunity of being an assistant to Gabs FM in Botswana when Bop Radio was shut down at the dawn of democracy, he said.Modisane further said he had an opportunity to be a film actor in 1991. He also enrolled at Wits and North West University to improve his communication and leadership skills. In 1995 I was promoted to be director of radio services for Radio Bop, Radio Sunshine and Mmabatho. Bop Broadcasting was shut down and I had a break of about six months. During this time I assisted Mafikeng FM in obtaining their broadcasting licence from Icasa. At one point Modise remembers the late former president Nelson Mandela visiting Mahikeng and ending up at the studio. When I stood to greet him, he called me by my name and that was one cherishable moment that proved that leaders also took time to listen to people like me. In 2004 I joined Motsweding FM presenting the Sunday gospel show for a period of 10 years and commanding a listenership of more than a million people. Last year I returned to the world of commercial radio and joined North West FM the home of the best music, he said.For Modise, success in the broadcast environment is all about hard work. Because of what I put into my work, I managed to visit places like Rio de Janeiro, Manchester and London, all in the name of radio. My journey in the radio world still continues. Radio is my passion and life, he said.Modise also serves as a motivational speaker and programme director at provincial and national events.-ELFAS TORERAI