UMkhonto WeSizwe (MK) and African National Congress (ANC) stalwart Dumisani Mafu will be honoured with a Provincial Official Funeral the Presidency announced on Friday. The former provincial chairman of the ANC Eastern Cape passed away last week Saturday following a brief illness. Mafu served as the party’s first chairman after the 1994 election. “Mr Mafu will be remembered for being a link between MK in Lusaka and the former Transkei homeland Defence Force,” said the Presidency in a statement. “This led to, among other things, collaborative efforts wherein the Transkei Defence Force later trained MK non-statutory forces stationed at Uganda camps in conventional military training. This training prepared MK forces for a smooth transition and integration into the new South African National Defence Force following democratic governance in 1994,” continued the official statement. President Zuma on behalf of government, conveyed his condolences to the Mafu family. Following news of Mafu’s death, condolences also came in from opposition parties including United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa. “Receiving news of the untimely departure of Dumisani Mazola Mafu is with immense distress and profound sadness. His passing away robs us of one of the greatest sons of our people, a former Commander of Umkhonto Wesizwe (MK) in particular in the then Transkei Region, a leader and a friend to many,” said Holomisa. “To his family, we want to tell you that you are not alone in this deep sad moment. I cry with you and I know that the people of this country are crying too,” continued Holomisa. Mafu’s funeral is scheduled to take place on 23 July. President Zuma has instructed that the National Flag, at all flag stations in the Eastern Cape Province, be flown at half-mast on the day. Mafu has been honoured with a Provincial Funeral Category 2 which is accorded to distinguished persons after a request by the provincial Premier is sent to the President for consideration. –Siphiwe Mchunu 