In 2007, Kimberley’s iconic McGregor Museum celebrated its centenary year. In honour of this significant milestone, a time capsule was buried on the museum grounds, where it will remain until 2017. A number of significant items were buried in the 100-year old cast-iron safe which will provide important clues for future generations about what we valued and contributed to making our lives easier, happier and more peaceful. The safe was used by the Beaconsfield Town Council sometime between 1883 and 1912 and was donated to the museum when Beaconsfield and Kimberley became one municipality in 1912. The museum contributed items and articles on important issues in 2007 such as global warming, HIV-Aids, a cellphone, a book entitled How Cool Stuff Works, seeds and photos of common and threatened plants of the Kimberley area, environmental education resources and Envirofacts sheets, a radio, an old spade, probably used when the Alexander McGregor Memorial Museum was built, copies of “very sensitive” letters from CJ Rhodes to FS Philipson-Stow (1886- 1898), strike action in 2007, advertising brochures and the museum’s annual report for 2006-2007. The McGregor, as it is affectionately known, was officially founded on September 24, 1907 when the widow of a previous mayor of Kimberley, Alexander McGregor, donated the funds necessary to establish the Museum. Today, the museum has its headquarters at the old Kimberley Sanatorium building in Belgravia and has several satellites, including the original building in Chapel Street. The McGregor Museum remains a primary research institute in and about the Northern Cape in the fields of natural and cultural history including zoology, botany, general history, South African struggle history, archaeology and social anthropology. It curates important collections and archival material and, on the basis of its collections and research activities, performs educational and outreach functions to the community locally and throughout the province. Research programmes include international collaborative projects. Everyone can learn something about our past at The McGregor. The museum houses major natural and cultural history collections including a botanical herbarium, zoology collections, history archive ethnography collections, geology, archaeology and rock art collections. This is enough to keep enquiring minds occupied for hours. Entrance is R20 per adult and is open from 9am-5pm, Monday to Saturday and 2pm-5pm on Sunday. natural history: McGregor Museum celebrated its centenary year in 2007 and is a resource centre for a variety of topics. Municipalities to merge Mier and Khara Hais municipalities will amalgamate AFTER 85 years of being an independent municipality, the Mier municipality has now been amalgamated with Khara Hais municipality. Despite assurances from the government, the amalgamation has not gone down well with residents in Mier. Northern Cape MEC for cooperative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs Alvin Botes announced the formation of South Africa’s largest municipality on Sunday morning. The Mier municipality, which lies a stone’s throw away from the Namibian border, is now one with the Khara Hais municipality based in Upington, 260km away. The new municipality will fall under the ZF Mgcawu district. Botes says the move to join the two was made to improve the economy of the area. “The amalgamation process has been necessitated by the fact that Mier is a very small municipality with a very restricted income base. By amalgamating with the Khara Hais municipality, it means that we speak to the agenda of rural development of this government. In this area, it means that in basic terms, that the rich will subsidise the poor.” The district municipality mayor, Abraham Vosloo, says service delivery to the new municipality will be improved. “We can safely say, as the government in the ZFM district, that the amalgamation of Mier and Khara Hais municipalities is totally in the best interest of the people of the different municipalities. At the end of the day, services will now be brought to the people in a cost-effective manner, they’ll be brought in an efficient manner.” However, these assurances by the local and provincial government have not gone down well with Mier residents. “We are not happy about this, we want to be Mier. We don’t want our name to be changed. We want to be managed by our own people,” one resident said. “The people of Mier have governed Mier successfully for the past 85 years. Now we must be governed by Upington. How will they do that when they just drive past here and know nothing about Mier?” Said another resident: “No I am not happy, illiterate people managed the municipality and now literate people should do a better job.” The new municipality will be named after deceased Khomani San healer and leader Dawid Kruiper. This is to pay homage to Kruiper, who is best known for walking more than 1 000km from the Kalahari to Parliament to talk about issues affecting the San people. His daughter Lys Kruiper-Pietersen says her father’s family is happy. “The family doesn’t have a problem. It is a privilege for us because it is leaving a legacy so our children and their children know that it has been named after Oom Dawid.” The government has assured employees of both the Mier and Khara Hais municipalities that they will not lose their jobs following the amalgamation. – SABC big announcement: MEC Alvin Botes says the merger will improve the economy in the areas. My Town, My News Send us your Hometown stories and pictures with details: news@thenewage.co.za WEATHERTODAY News for the new SA 7-9pm ANN7 Prime news is about South Africa’s heart and soul. ANN7 Prime champions progressive thinking, transformation and justice. It speaks up for ordinary South Africans and does so without fear or favour With Sindy Mabe News for the new SA 7-9pm ANN7 Prime news is about South Africa’s heart and soul. ANN7 Prime champions progressive thinking, transformation and justice. It speaks up for ordinary South Africans and does so without fear or favour With Sindy Mabe Route map for Team Northern Cape.