South African jazz musician Don Laka recently met with local artists in Ngaka Modiri Molema district municipality as part of inspiring them to produce and have their works aired by the SABC.The North West culture, arts and traditional affairs department, South African Arts and Culture Youth Forum (SAACYF) and Mahikeng local municipality were part of the event.Laka said the aim was to enlighten the up and coming artists on the 90% local music agreement with the SABC. He was behind the fight that local artists must be recognised and ultimately the SABC agreed to play 90% of local music through its 18 radio stations. The artists need to know what is now expected from them.They need to up their game and produce high quality music now. We also want to encourage the culture, arts and traditional affairs department (CATA) to support local artists, Laka said. We need to make sure that the 90% local music initiative benefits all artists. So we urge the provincial government to also play its role by empowering young people. We need more workshops and people with business acumen within the music industry. He said artists must now be developed as entrepreneurs and move away from an era of exploitation by producers and promoters. Artists must be treated as ambassadors of the provinces they come from.There are many initiatives and supporting programmes for artists to access funding. As artists you need to apply for that funding. Also the departments must tell artists about the procurement system, he said. All the policies put in place by the government can also be changed to accommodate artists. We also want black-owned companies to benefit from the 90% local music initiative. When you look at other countries like Nigeria and Mali, they are playing 100% local music. The initiative has stopped billions of rand from leaving the country. This will also boost the economy. From now on foreign artists will have to collaborate with our artists for their music to be played on our shores. SAACYF president Romeo Ramuada said: We will be targeting commercial radio stations now.We will embark in a march on June 16 as the youth. We need to be radical about this new development. We cannot try to decolonise the music industry but on the other hand we have so-called commercial radios doing the opposite. The country loses a lot of revenue by playing foreign music.We urge the government to build studios in villages. We also support the initiative by Premier Supra Mahumapelo. The town and small dorpies initiative will also boost the local economy.We cannot have an underdeveloped music industry for so long. CATA provincial chief director, Thabo Mabe said the department was ready to support local artists and partner with them. We have developed service points in all districts. All artists were urged to register on the database. We also want them to be part of a central supplier database so that they can form part of a CATA department database, he said.African Music Movement and Culture leader, Joey Mabe said: We support the initiative and believe this is the beginning of good things. This was a fruitful engagement, now our artists know what is expected from them. obakengm@thenewage.co.zas