&nbsp;&nbsp;Choirs from schools in the Ngaka Modiri Molema district will belt it out at the three-day South African Schools Choral Eisteddfod (SASCE) starting today.The competition takes place at Lehurutshe Civic Centre in the Ramotshere Moiloa local municipality.The three-day competition is set to produce fireworks with school pupils eager to advance to the provincial competition. Some of the categories are solo, trio, small ensemble and indigenous folklore, among others.The competition is two-legged with the primary schools setting the ball rolling today while secondary and high schools fight for honours tomorrow.The competition is a dress rehearsal for the provincial leg where category winners will represent the North West at national level. We are done with area offices competition, SASCE chairperson Thabo Mmolai said. Now we focus on the district competition where we expect some fireworks approaching the provincial competition. The entrance is free of charge. Come one, come all and hear your children serenade to a point where you feel proud of them. No doubt about it, you will experience choral music at its best. Mmolai said a workshop was held in January to familiarise conductors with choral music dynamics that would be objects of scrutiny at the competition. We are working hard to recruit experienced conductors to impart knowledge to others, he said. We need several workshops to help our conductors produce good results. It s not true that choral music is slowly fading or dying. We are working very hard together with the department to stop our music from fading. Pupils from participating schools expressed optimism that they would win. I m wheelchair-bound but that doesn t prevent me from participating in schools extramural activities, Vusimusi Mabaso, 18, from Tlamelang Special School said. I draw inspiration from these activities. Mabaso said his parents had always supported him since he chose choral music and table tennis as his favourite extracurricular activities. I fell in love with music and table tennis when I was in primary school, Mabaso, from Gelukspan village, said.Vusimusi won two gold medals last year at the Table Tennis SA School Championship in Pretoria. Mosese Jabanyane, an official from the provincial education and sport development department, challenged schools to promote choral music. We urge schools to participate in choral music to reveal the talent of young people, he said. People out there survive through music. Gospel artist Rebecca Malope comes to mind and many others. We thank the organisers for doing a great job in organising schools to participate in choral music, the talent that is being displayed by pupils and the efforts of dedicated teachers. elfast@thenewage.co.za