THE department of cooperative governance, traditional affairs and human settlements in the Western Cape says all is going according to plan and no jobs will be lost in the upcoming merger of Mier and Khara Heis local municipalities.At the weekend the department convened public participation campaigns to communicate with residents in both municipalities. Mier, which is located 266km away from Upington, is smaller and has experienced more financial difficulties. However, after the merger the bigger and richer Khara Heis, which is worth R445m, will be able to subsidise Mier.MEC for Cogsta Alvin Botes said they had managed the merger on a political level and not only on a municipal level. This will by far be one of the biggest wards in South Africa, the size of Gauteng, with 10 000m , he said.Botes said the newly established municipality s name would be gazetted by June 15 when the naming process had been concluded. It will be named after a struggle icon. Botes said the merged municipality would be executive in nature and thus the speaker and municipal managers would be permanent.However, the department is still faced with resolving salary issues before the merger and has to decide whether or not to amend the salaries of certain individuals. The Mier people were not getting as much as the Khara Heis people and we must now sit down with trade unions Samvu and Imatu and determine the salaries, Botes said. What we are wary of is that the people of Mier community must not be worse off than they are now, livelihoods must improve. Botes said they also needed to resolve cases related to the sale of agricultural land. We have mandated the mayor to tackle these matters, he said.Mayor of ZF Mgcawu, Abraham Vosloo, said they had decided to place the seat of governance in Upington. Regarding the staff complement and the duplication of posts, Vosloo said they would not be cutting any jobs but would find positions for people in other departments.He said they had established a committee to deal with human resourcesrelated matters to draft a new organogram. The trade unions are part of it and we have also made the staff aware that they might have to be flexible to be moved to different towns in the district. Samvu and Imatu are on board and we have been in discussions with them, Vosloo said.nomusam@thenewage.co.za-Nomusa Mvubu