The government is not closing the door but creating an opportunity for the recognition of the Khoisan people, a group who in the past has been left out.The route to recognition involves a Bill that is making its way through Parliament becoming law, followed by hearings to establish the legitimacy of leadership claims in this group. Indeed we believe in the Western Cape there will emerge a group of senior traditional councils and also in the Northern Cape, Free State, and Eastern Cape, Obed Bapela deputy Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs said.He was speaking to the Select Committee on Petitions and Executive Undertakings. A hearing was held yesterday into the failure of the local government to institute a Provincial House of Traditional Leaders.Bapela said: The future is beckoning which is a hope and indeed a determination that this community which was left out in the past will definitely be recognised as part of the legitimate communities that exist and who have cultural and customary laws and activities and communities. He said: We are not coming here as the government to say we are closing all the doors but to say an opportunity is beckoning and we hope once the Bill is processed, we are coming to a conclusion where all South Africans enjoy the rights to practice their customs. The meeting was due to have been held earlier this month but was postponed because of the unavailability of Western Cape Premier Helen Zille. Yesterday Zille and two MECs failed to arrive at the hearing, owing to other commitments.Aaron Messelaar, provincial leader of the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa, accused Zille of refusing to meet traditional leaders. They recognise culture but don t recognise the custodians of that culture, he said.Chris Frantz, CEO of the unofficial Western Cape House of Traditional Leaders, asked the NCOP to recognise their rights as traditional leaders. We have the right to equal citizenship with all other tribes in the country. We feel this is discrimination, he said.In a presentation to the committee, Bapela s department said when steps were taken to identify traditional leaders in the Western Cape, 29 claims were received. Of these applications for recognition, there were two for kingship, one for a headman and 26 for senior traditional leaders. All the claims were investigated and not one was successful.DENNIS CRUYWAGEN