Some Northern Cape Rural FET College students believe that the shortage of higher learning facilities and courses are to blame for the high unemployment problem in Kuruman.Unemployment in the town is one of the burning issues that college students said should be addressed by the provincial and national governments.The NCR FET College is the only higher education institution in Kuruman and has limited courses. A student, Ikanyeng Gulekane, said that the college was unable to provide the skills required by the job market. He suggested that the college include relevant courses for the next academic year. I don t think the courses in our college really benefit us, he said. Kuruman campus manager Leon Foutie accepted during an interview that graduates were struggling to get employment based on their field of study. He said many people would acquire skills with small businesses opening in Kuruman and applauded the start-ups for creating employment. Our fear is that most of these graduates will not find the necessary job in the specific skill or specific field of study in which they have embarked, he said. Most of them do find jobs but not in the field they have studied in. A whole lot of small businesses have opened up in Kuruman. Foutie said he hoped the companies would address skills shortages in Kuruman. The Ga-Segonyana local municipality has said strategies were afoot to reduce unemployment numbers in the area. Ga-Segonyana local municipality mayor Gibson Antony said unemployment remained an issue that needed to be given more attention.He said the municipality welcomed private colleges aiming to render services in order to enrich locals. We are at 33% in terms of unemployment, Antony said. Skills development in the Ga-Segonyana and John Taolo Gaetsewe municipalities is a challenge For starters, we as the municipality have allocated a piece of land to ensure that the existing small college operating in town is located and proper colleges are developed on that land. Another college student, Orateng Ditira, said she was worried about her future. I hope that when I complete my N6 I can get an internship, she said. It worries me a lot because people who are unemployed end up doing bad things. If you stay at home without a job you end up committing crime. Some rob people in town because they have nothing to do. The province has one university, Sol Plaatje University and it is only for those who want degrees.There are several FET and TVET colleges in the province but most are found in bigger cities such as Kimberley and Upington.&nbsp;provinces@thenewage.co.za