&nbsp;The North West water and sanitation department said they would continue to encourage communities to take care of water infrastructure in their areas.Departmental spokesperson Katlego Mokaila said that vandalism of infrastructure was a criminal offence. Mokaila said they were concerned after experiencing vandalism of their infrastructure. She said they had established a water services monitoring forum.The forum will keep an eye on all water supply, water quality and spillages. The initiative will help reduce vandalism. We will also deal with protests related to water service delivery. This will include infrastructure challenges in the 11 water service authorities across the province. This means the community members; the police, municipalities, water boards and all water consumers will be watching perpetrators. Criminal elements in our society will destroy us if we do not act now. The government serves the people and we must stand up against vandalism. Last year, President Jacob Zuma, in terms of section 84 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, signed into law the Criminal Matters Amendment Act, 2015, she said. Mokaila said the Act amends the Criminal Procedure Act, 1977. It has introduced harsher sentences for the destruction of essential infrastructure. More stringent bail conditions and applications for perpetrators will also be applied. Any person found guilty of any infrastructure-related offences can be convicted for a period of up to 30 years. This includes any offence involving ferrous or non-ferrous metals which form part of an installation, structure, facility or system, whether publicly or privately owned. This is used to provide or distribute an essential service in relation to water, sewerage, energy or transport for the benefit of the public. Theft of copper cables, transformers, engines and taps is a crime because the supply system, reticulation and its delivery points are affected and major water leakages are possible or even experienced. Perpetrators include alleged contractors or individuals who sabotage water infrastructure to supply water tankers for their benefit, while charging communities for the same free water, she said. Mokaila said those who throw foreign objects into sewer systems resulting in sewer blockages and spillages and damage pump-stations and pipework will be dealt with. The water business is energy intensive and highly dependent on electricity. Cable theft, therefore, poses a high risk regarding the security of water supply. The elements of criminality are all over the country but stealing copper and cables has become a way of life and has to be stopped, she said. Mokaila said cases of vandalism have escalated this year and municipalities are rapidly increasing their security.All infrastructure-related offences should be reported to the police, local municipality or through the department s toll free number 0800200200 to report them. The vandalism of infrastructure was also being experienced a few months ago in Mamusa local municipality.A few JoJo tanks were vandalised in Ipelegeng location, in Schweizer Reneke which halted service delivery. Dr Ruth Segomotsi district municipality spokesperson Joel Motlhasedi said a task team was established to deal with that. The water and sanitation department provided water services and the situation has improved. Water is transported daily from Geysdorp near Delareyville to where the tankers are stationed.We also requested assistance from Sedibeng Water. They delivered 10 JoJo tanks to Mamusa to improve water distribution. Only one tank was vandalised and we are working around the clock to monitor the situation. The water crisis has drastically improved, he said.Rustenburg local municipality spokesperson, Thapelo Matebesi said persistent copper cable theft, breakages of pump stations and power supply outages continued to affect service delivery in the area. He said they would continue to ensure that residents were provided with clean running water. The municipality repaired a major water pipeline on Monday near Boitekong Mall. The damage caused a water supply interruption. Areas like Boitekong Extensions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12 and 23, Million Dollar, Ramochana, Sunrise Park, Seraleng and Sondela were affected. It was a mammoth task to fix the 700mm steel pipe. It required intensive welding and we applaud our technical and maintenance team for the sterling job. The pipe repair ensured the restoration of water to our communities, Matebesi said.He said they commended the residents for their patience during the major repairs. Matebesi said: Together with residents, we will continue to move Rustenburg forward. Obakeng Maje