North West business woman Kule Mahumapelo continued to be a beacon of hope to many elderly people across the province. Mahumapelo celebrated an elderly Nhole villager’s birthday with her, bearing gifts of groceries and blankets. The grandmother, Onewang Tlhase, who turned 106 also received a house from the department of local government and human settlements. Mahumapelo said she had singled out the centenarian during a visit to Taung back in February. Mahumapelo, who is the wife to Premier Supra Mahumapelo, said her foundation was working in partnership with South African Social Security Agency and other stakeholders to change the lives of people. “When I formed this foundation, my primary objective was to help orphans. However, I have realised elderly people are the ones who experience difficulties. They are the ones who always have to carry the burden by raising all these children. So we swiftly moved our focus to cater for elderly people. “We visited Taung back in February and we found Tlhase living in abject poverty in a one-roomed house. We approached the local government and human settlements department about her situation. The elderly woman received a house and her living conditions have improved.” Mahumapelo said they came to celebrate with her to show love. She said they welcomed the advocacy of every individual, organisation or agency in this fight against the abuse of elderly people, as well as their isolation. “As we are able to unite in this mission, we will be able to bring about change. “This change can start within. Love and support elders so that unity and healing can start to take place on an individual and national levels as we move forward in this fight. “The mission is to eliminate all forms of elderly abuse including isolation, through education and awareness, support of social change and community service programmes. “We are dedicated to fighting elderly abuse. Let us protect the integrity of the family unit through advocacy. We will achieve that by seeking to empower and unify society,” Mahumapelo said. She also urged communities to have a voice and speak out against violence on senior citizens. Mahumapelo said that helping the aging population maintained their independence and dignity was the best that people could do. “We will continue to visit other districts and identify those who need help. We also urge the youth to be part of this initiative. “We cannot win this battle alone, so their participation is of importance,” she said. Tlhase said she would then rest in peace because she had a shelter over her head. She said that she had nearly lost all hope. “I am very happy today because I never thought this day will come. I have been suffering for a very long time. “The house I was living in was in bad condition and I want to thank Almighty for making it possible for this mark,” Tlhase said. “I could not celebrate my birthday better than this,” she said. obakengm@thenewage.co.za