SPORT, arts, culture and recreation MEC Mathabo Leeto says her department will focus on schools to identify talent with the implementation of the Arts in Schools competition in Bloemfontein on Sunday.The competition s theme is My country My Africa! Celebrating our national symbols. Leeto said the implantation was made possible through the grant assistance received from the Expanded Public Works Programme and her department.She said a total of 95 field workers have been contracted to visit schools and train pupils in arts and cultural activities. Outcomes of the programme include the fact that the department has to provide identified schools with the necessary material and training as well as getting pupils to showcase their work of art in the form of a competition.Furthermore, we will award prizes for excellence and create more platforms for arts in schools, Leeto said. She said the objective of the Arts in Schools competition is to expose South Africa s young people of school-going age in the public schools to the countries national symbols (anthem, flag and the coat of arms). Also fostering social cohesion, nation building and patriotism, creating awareness among pupils between the educator and broader school community of the importance, understanding and symbolic meaning of the anthem, flag and coat of arms, Leeto said.She said there are four categories, drama, which must consist of a cast of 10 pupils in a performance of 15 minutes. Poetry, to have a maximum of five pupils and take 10 minutes. Audio visual to take 10 minutes on DVD, while visual arts to have any medium with two art works and the themes coat of arms, flag and anthem. The productions are expected to describe and interpret the meaning and importance of the theme. Winning schools from different districts will compete for the provincial championships to be held later in the year.Through the performing arts programme, frequent opportunities will continue to be created for artists to perform in popular places that enjoy high patronage, Leeto said. She said the main objective is to continue with the regular art ecosystem and talent identification programme while, in the process, creating jobs for artists. Local theatres in various municipalities will continue to be used for arts and culture performances and development in 2016/2017. We will engage local municipalities to utilise their facilities to emerging artists at a minimum fee, the MEC said.Leeto said the Bloemfontein Civic Theatre has once again been a beehive of activity, hosting various productions and it was made for the benefit of local artists. As we stated before, the main purpose is to create spaces for community arts and create opportunities for producers and directors in line with Mzanzi s Golden Economy and ensure they are used as a springboard for the creation or touring venture, Leeto saidduring her 2016/2017 budget vote speech. The first prize is a trophy, certificates for pupils and R10000 worth of art material. The second-placed school will go home with a trophy, certificates and R5000 worth of art material, with the third school also receiving a trophy, certificates and R3000 of art material.-BECKER SEMELA