Are you embarrassed by your apparent lack of sexual stamina or premature ejaculation? Wanting to last longer during sex seems to be a common desire for men and women alike, but in reality our sexual prowess appears to be influenced by a number of individual and social factors that scientists are only beginning to understand.While a number of factors such as sexual communication (external), stress (psychological) and body image (physical) rate high among the issues that negatively impacts the quality of our sex lives for both sexes, a considerable portion of women 43% in the US and 44% in SA appear to be struggling with not just the lack of sexual stamina (which affects mostly men), but a few other difficulties including low sexual desire, difficulties reaching orgasm, vaginal laxity (looseness), many as the result of childbirth.The good news is that you can overcome some of these issues by simply following these exercise techniques which work at developing muscles involved during sex, thus improving both sexual endurance and drive.Kegels exercisesWidely used to control a loose bladder, Kegels exercises can be applied by both men and women to help increase blood flow to the genital area, thus assisting them to achieve greater ejaculation control and intense orgasm. You can also perform Kegels during your sexploits to delay the inevitable, New York based urologist Darius A Paduch was quoted by GQ.Step-by-step kegels for women Lie down on your back in a comfortable place with your knees bent. Lying down takes the weight off your pelvic floor and leads to earlier success. Insert one or two lubricated fingers into your vagina about two inches, and then squeeze your pelvic floor muscles until you feel them tightening and lifting around your fingers. If you feel the muscles in your vagina tighten around your finger when you contract, you re doing the exercise correctly. Hold the lift for a count of five to 10, then relax your muscles. Try to keep your leg, buttock, and abdominal muscles relaxed, and remember to breathe normally throughout the exercise.Kegels for both men and women: The next time you re peeing, try to stop or slow down the flow of urine. That muscle you feel tightening is the one you need to work. Contract these muscles for a slow count of five. Release the muscles to a slow count of five. Repeat 10 times.Hip liftLie face-up on a yoga mat with your knees bent and feet flat on the floor (placed near the butt and about hip-width apart). Rest your arms at your sides with your palms face-down. Push through the heels to lift your hips up while keeping your shoulders flush against the floor. Pause, then slowly lower back to the ground. Do 2-3 sets of 10-15 reps.Push-Ups Instead of lowering yourself all the way to the ground, I want you to lower yourself only halfway down, says the online blog on endtheproblem.com. Halfway down push-ups are easier to achieve and enable you to do faster reps. This, as well as increasing your sexual strength, will also increase your sexual fitness and stamina. Do sets of 10 or 20 push ups, spread through the day or as many as you feel comfortable with.How long is normal ?In 2012, Kanye West was the subject of two steamy sex tape scandal with his exes. TMZ described the tapes as impressively long. The first is roughly 20 minutes and the second is more than 40. And we re talking constant action. Seriously, the guy takes no breaks. It s incredible. Almost sting-like, the article read.While there s been much scepticism as to whether it s possible to last that long or not, premature ejaculation was previously defined as the man reaching climax before one or two minutes of penetrative sex, until recently. A recent journal by Sexual medicine study found while ladies would like the session to last 23 minutes, the average time men sex last was just 3 minutes and 45 seconds. Most scientists agree that sexual satisfaction goes hand in hand with good relationships where good communication and mutual support exist between couples.siyabongas@thenewage.co.za