Massive glory beckons for Mamelodi Sundowns and South Africa when they take on Egyptian side Zamalek in the CAF Champions League Final second leg on Sunday at 8.30pm.So says Sundowns player Hlompho Kekana, whose first trophy he may lift as the captain may be the Champions League that eluded the club back in 2001. Kekana had a chance to lift a trophy a few weeks ago against Bidvest Wits in the MTN 8 final, but came back empty handed after being hammered 3-0 by Bidvest Wits.Coach Pitso Mosimane heads into the second leg enjoying a comfortable 3-0 lead after Anthony Laffor, Tebogo Langerman and Percy Tau scored at the Lucas Moripe Stadium.With death threats, a determined Zamalek side s flares, lasers and rowdy away fans standing in their way, Sundowns have their eye firmly fixed on the trophy. This is a very big match. We are in a good space. We want to win the match and bring the trophy home. It has been difficult. We are new in this competition. We have to enjoy the moment even though we never expected it, Kekana said. We have looked at comebacks of the past and we respect Zamalek. We will need to defend well. We know them and their weak points, so we cannot afford to lose focus. We are ready as a team. It will be a good feeling. We have seen our heroes in 1995 (Orlando Pirates) who brought the trophy home. We are going there to bring the trophy home. The crowd does not intimidate us because we have been to Tunisia against ES Setif and we have been to Cairo with Bafana Bafana. It will be their 11 against our 11. We know what is expected of us. For years, October 23 has been known as the day on which football was blessed with a certain Brazilian football genius named Pele, but Sundowns, ironically nicknamed the Brazilians, may just etch their name in football folklore and be spoken alongside Pele in terms of the history of the day.While history is not something they are chasing, their names will be celebrated for years, especially since they are the first to bring the trophy to the country after Orlando Pirates did so in 1995.A new batch of South African football heroes is needed in the country and the Brazilians are ready to stand up and be counted. We first have to consolidate our lead there. Try to score an early away goal. We know that nothing will be easy, but we are close. We are pretending it is goalless. All we want is to make history. Such an approach where we don t think about the past has helped us. We need to do it for South Africa, the Sundowns midfielder said.A win on Sunday will earn Sundowns their first Champions League triumph and send them to the Fifa Club World Cup, where they will have an opportunity to face Spanish giants Real Madrid.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za