Abandoning the Absa Premiership schedule for the Fifa international break is traditionally an accepted disturbance.But the consequences for the intrusive international fixtures can also be quite negative for the teams looking to maintain newly found momentum teams such as Kaizer Chiefs.Amakhosi have been on a threematch winning streak but they may have to click back into gear when they host Ajax Cape Town in Durban tomorrow. It would have been nice to carry on because the feeling is still fresh and you want the player to go on with it, Chiefs coach Steve Komphela said. You don t know what will happen during a break with injuries.You just don t know when you resume how the players are going to respond. It s always better to keep playing. But you can t complain. We just need to try to get through the next match with the same attitude. Chiefs did not enjoy a good start to the season, almost falling into a rut. But it s been a good turnaround for a team that s now sitting top of the log with 10 points. I think bad in a sense that the results were not positive, Komphela said. But in terms of performance, maybe I was too subjective. I had always felt that we were playing okay. It s only good that the results are coming and they are going to point at the performances because, like it or not, the results influence how you see the match. A team can play brilliant football but after losing that s gone. A team can play nonsense but after they win, they look like they are good. But if you play well and win, then everything gets clear. At the heart of that turnaround has been the ever-improving Mitchell Katsvairo, Hendrick Ekstein, George Lebese and William Twala, the trio who are expected to torment a struggling Ajax at Moses Mabhida Stadium tomorrow.The return of Siphiwe Tshabalala should also be a good omen. Tshabalala boasts a good record against the Urban Warriors, having won most of the 20 matches he has played against the Cape side.Elsewhere, Orlando Pirates face a tricky trip to Polokwane City, looking to get their league campaign back on the track.KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA AND NEVILLE KHOZA