Only a silver whistle can stop Sundowns Only one man can stop Mamelodi Sundowns from being crowned champions of Africa in Egypt on Sunday.He s a Gambian with a silver whis &#8211; tle Bakary Papa Gassama. Considered CAF s finest referee, Gassama is lined up for the crunch clash between Nigeria and Algeria 2018 Fifa World Cup qualifier at the Godswill Akpabio Inter &#8211; national Stadium in Uyo on November 12.He refereed at the World Cup in Brazil in 2. He s the best there is, a judgment confirmed by the Confederation of African Football when he was named the continent s best referee at the annual CAF awards last year. When you go to Alexan &#8211; dria s Borg el Arab Stadium with a 3-0 lead, as Pitso Mosimane s Masandawana do on Sunday, a strong, unimpeachable referee is a MUST.With Jean Claude Birumushahu of Burundi and Marwa Range of Kenya running the lines, Mosi &#8211; mane knows exactly what to expect.As the Kabo Yellow heroes headed to Egypt, Mosimane said: We ve checked the referees to see how they deal with pres &#8211; sure. There are other dangers awaiting Sundowns, who ve crushed everything in their path after re-entering the tournament via the backdoor after AS Vita, who knocked them out before the group stages, were disquali &#8211; fied for playing an ineligible player. Mosimane grins: The 12th player (a capacity 40 000 crowd who were largely allowed in to the Lucas Moripe Stadium for half-price if they wore Sun &#8211; downs colours on Saturday) played a very big part. In Egypt it will be the same. But they understand that there will be lasers in Egypt.I told them, we ve been there with Bafana there were lasers, nothing happened. So let s go and play. And then there s the latest twist in the modern game.Electronic death threats: There have been messages sent via social media, to all the players whoever has got an Instagram, Facebook, or Twitter account, all of them. They have received death threats. But those things are OK. It s mind games. . The players have laughed about it. I said, OK that s good. Because if they don t talk about it maybe it could affect them. With Colombian striker Leonardo Castro still injured, Pitso is unlikely to make many changes to his side. If we play like this nobody in the African con &#8211; tinent can live with us. With a decent referee it s hard to disagree with that sentiment.-Neal Collins