WATCH your pets. Dogfight syndicates are using children as young as 11 years old to steal the animals from homes for this cruel underground and bloody sport.This shocking discovery was made by animal rights activists Soweto Animal Rescue and Advisory Centre (Sarac) after investigating a string of cases of pitbulls reported missing.Jerry Selwane, who runs Sarac, said the kingpins operating in Soshanguve in the north of Pretoria entice children to break into people s houses in order to steal dogs, which are then used for dog fights. These people are very clever. They keep their hands clean. They do not even keep the dogs at their premises. The kids used are not even paid and are forced to commit these crimes by the violent syndicates, Selwane said.Compelled by the kingpins, an 18 year old, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The New Age that he and his friends were made to steal three to four dogs a day. Before we go to steal the dogs they (the kingpins) would check the dogs to see if it bites and is aggressive. We would then get there with food to lure it. If it starts eating the food, we would then start to pet it. If it succumbs, then one person goes into the yard. As one is petting it to calm it, the one inside the yard lifts it over the gate. Once it is out we go get another one, he said.As simple as it sounds, the teen said they stole the dogs without even lacing their food. We would use bones and pap combined with soup. The food didn t have poison. It was just for the dogs not to bite us, he said.He said they stole all breeds and sizes of dogs, but pitbulls, boerbulls and mastiffs were targets due to their aggressive nature and high price. Some of the dogs we stole were sold, some were given to people and if the dogs know how to fight, it would be used for dog fights, he said.On Monday, Sarac discovered three badly-injured canines used in dog fights left for dead in a disused toilet in Soshanguve. These poor creatures were stolen, made to fight and dumped in some disused toilets without rendering any medical treatment. These dogs are lucky to have survived the ordeal, Sarac wrote on its Facebook page.&#8211;LESLEY TSHAMANO