As academic activities are scheduled to resume at Nelson Mandela Municipality University(NMMU) on Tuesday, police presence remains heavy at the campus.According to reports, students and workers gathered at the entrance to the South Campus and were dispersed with teargas as they tried to prevent reopening of the institution.Police also fired teargas at the residential corridors on Tuesday morning.The institution&#8217;s acting vice chancellor Dr Sibongile Muthwa has called on students to join her on a walk to South Campus.Three leaders of the NMMU #FeesMustFall movement were reportedly arrested on the main campus on Monday, in terms of the Regulations of Gatherings Act.Furthermore, the Xanadu Melody clubhouse on the main campus was set alight during the early hours of Monday morning. Authorities in the Eastern Cape are investigating a case of arson.NMMU spokesperson Zandile Mbabela said police and campus security were investigating the cause of the blaze while at the same time, working to try and determine the extent of the damage.The NMMU Fees Must Fall Movement condemned and distanced itself from the gutted infrastructure and students on social media did not take the violent act lightly. We have been informed of an NMMU facility that was set alight in the early hours of the morning. We are very angry that our facilities have been disrespected to this degree, similarly we are of the opinion that arson is not a revolutionary act but a crime that should not go unattended, thus as a movement we strongly condemn such acts, said the movement on its Facebook account.Last Friday, the university obtained an interdict from the Port Elizabeth High Court which allows the university to take action against protesting students.NMMU has drafted an over-arching, student-friendly academic recovery plan. This comes after students lost momentum in their learning during the national fee-related protests. Academics will factor in that this week will focus on transitioning back to a learning mindset. Students will also be alerted to rescheduled dates for tests and assignments. A new examination timetable will be shared in due course. The plan also makes provision for more intensive support of student learning and wellness. Catch-up tutorials and supplemental instruction sessions can be offered while students are encouraged to form their own informal study groups. To enhance their readiness for studying, Student Counselling will offer group sessions, said NMMU.-Keitumetsi Motlhale and Simangele Legodi