&nbsp;The ANCYL has noted with dismay the despicable comments of the former Minister of Finance in the Republic of South Africa, Mr Trevor Manuel. His comments are unfortunate, rude and reckless.It is our considered view that this kind of language should not be encouraged, thus must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. It is expected that when journalists ask anyone to comment on a matter that pertains to them, those individuals ought to comment in a dignified way. Even if it means that the comment is: I do not want to comment on that matter .It is worse for a person like him who use to hold public office and now is a leader in business. It is expected, at least, that Mr Trevor Manuel would have simply declined to comment. But it must be noted that Trevor ought to respond on the matter in question concerning public funds and allegations of flouting of procurement policies of government.In a country where corruption has been the talk of town and with everyone committed to fighting it, responsible leadership must account for what can be perceived as maladministration or corruption. We call on relevant authorities to pursue this matter for the public to get clarity on the matter so that the matter is laid to rest.Trevor Manuel has commented on many issues in South Africa post his term in public office. Manuel has been critical of the ANC leadership within the organisation and in government. It is within that spirit of good governance that he has been complaining about that he must account about what happened during his tenure in government.We call on Trevor Manuel to apologise to the journalist concerned and to the public for such use of words, which are unfortunate. Many people in South Africa have been complaining about accuracy, objectivity and balance of stories journalists write. When journalists want to achieve such, they are insulted.This cannot be! How do you then expect that a journalist will have a balanced story when they are treated in this manner?We call on the ANC leadership to formally charge Comrade Trevor Manuel, as member of the ANC. We say this given the background that, previously, one of the former leaders of the ANCYL was charged for the use of such words. It is our expectation that the ANC must be consistent in carrying out discipline and dealing with ill discipline.The ANC constitution instructs that the ANC disciplinary code of conduct must not be used to victimize members or settle political scores. It is our considered view that if Cde. Trevor Manuel is not charged, it might create a perception in society and within the movement that the former leader and member of the ANCYL was victimized for political reasons.The behaviour of Mr Trevor Manuel as a leader in business, does not inspire confidence instead it inculcates the misconception that business and business people can get away with anything and they are untouchable .We want to re-affirm our resolve that law enforcement agencies must look into this matter urgently. It would appears that from Trevor Manuel&#8217;s comments, he has a lot to answer for.His behaviour is identical to that of a cheating boyfriend. It is commonly known that boyfriends who cheat, when asked to account about unclear interactions with certain individuals, their first reaction is that of getting angry and insulting. Please, the man must stop behaving like a person who cheats, unless of course, if that is the case!This unbecoming behaviour of a former cabinet minister and current chair of Old Mutual SA is an assault, not only to women in general but to the young people of this country aswell.ISSUED BY Mlondi Mkhize National Spokesperson African National Congress Youth League