&nbsp;The contents of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s sensational affidavit in which he mentioned suspicious transactions in the accounts of Gupta-owned Oakbay Investments, is fatally flawed.It could have serious legal repercussions for Gordhan and Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) head Murray Michell who submitted the false information to the court.Last week Gordhan revealed in a court application that the country s banks flagged 72 suspicious transactions valued at R6.3bn that prompted them to close the bank accounts of Oakbay Investments.Gordhan obtained the information from Michell. In a hard hitting response, the lawyer for the Gupta family and Oakbay Investments, Gert van der Merwe, described Gordhan s affidavit as flawed and the application as undiluted nonsense and appears to be little more than the usual political games .Van der Merwe said that the Gupta family and Oakbay Investments welcomed the opportunity to clear their name. The Gupta family (as majority shareholders) and Oakbay Investments are delighted to have been cited as respondents to the application from the finance minister. At last, the Gupta family and Oakbay can begin to formally clear their names. They thank him for this opportunity. The truth always comes out in the end and we look forward to clearing our name in court, Van der Merwe said.In an analysis of the 72 suspicious transactions flagged by the banks and provided to Gordhan in the form of a certificate, Van Der Merwe demonstrated that the high court was misled by Gordhan in the wake of his application for a declaratory order. His affidavit and supporting documentation were widely circulated to the media.Gordhan s application created the perception that the Guptas illegally spirited billions from accounts related to Optimum Mining, a company they purchased recently. Van der Merwe rubbished Gordhan s assertion and said that the Optimum-related transactions referred to in Mitchell s certificate predated the Gupta and Oakbay s purchase of the company. Six transactions (totalling R4.096bn) refer to the Optimum mine before it was under Oakbay s control and so were not transacted by Oakbay or the family. Prior to the purchase of Optimum Mining, the mine was under business rescue and its daily operations managed by business rescue practitioners Piers Marsden and Peter van den Steen.In his certificate provided to Gordhan, Michell confirmed that transactions during the period April 25 to May 11, 2016, were flagged as suspicious. According to Van der Merwe these transactions were conducted by the business practitioners and prior to the Guptas taking ownership.Responding to allegations by Gordhan that the Guptas misappropriated funds held in the Optimum Mine Rehabilitation Trust, Van der Merwe said: One of the largest transactions flagged in Minister Gordhan s application was the transfer of the Optimum Rehabilitation Trust s account (more than R1.3bn) from Standard Bank to the Bank of Baroda. Yesterday, we proved this was bona fide and approved by all relevant authorities. The transfer occurred because all of Oakbay s accounts were being closed. Regarding the remainder of the 72 suspicious transactions flagged by the banks and Michell, Van der Merwe said they were legitimate . All of the 72 transactions were approved and cleared by the respective banks processing the transactions.The fact that all transactions were approved is acknowledged in the attachment to Minister Gordhan s application in the form of a signed letter from the deputy governor of the Reserve Bank. None of the transactions related to Oakbay or the family, which are over a five-year period, were flagged to the FIC as suspicious.Gordhan in his affidavit sought a declaratory order for him not to intervene in the banks closure of Oakbay s accounts for unknown reasons earlier this year.Political analyst Prof Somadoda Fikeni said unwarranted and invasive media scrutiny of the Gutpa family s business dealings made it all the more difficult for the public to differentiate between fact and fiction. People have now taken entrenched positions. Whatever one side is doing, it will always be seen with divided responses. Even before evidence comes, people have already made their conclusions. Don t jump the gun, test evidence first, Fikeni said. He said that while the Gupta family could take the legal route to clear their name, the family had already suffered irreparable harm. They may go to court and win but people will say what about the claims by the deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas. Positions have become religion on this matter, Fikeni said. Political analyst Prof Sipho Seepe said a court process would be better suited as an arbiter to sift fact from opinion. It should be resolved in court. The courts are able to cut through the cracks, Seepe said yesterday.bonolos@thenewage.co.za