Liar, liar, your pants are on fire, nose as long as a telephone wire.That s the synopsis of Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton s devious scripts delivered throughout the three presidential debates that most undecided US voters would have had the displeasure of watching.Wednesday s third and final debate was yet another collection of campaign strafes that objective viewers could brand as the biggest political circus since the Nixon administration. It was also much of the same old, same old, with both presidential candidates running around in circles in what was largely a repetition of the two previous debates. Emails, taxes, taxes, emails.But let this be known; had the great American journalist Hunter S Thompson been alive today, he would have gone like a rabid dog after Hillary Clinton as he did with the corrupt Nixon.Thompson had a knack for seeing putrid politics from a hundred miles away. The question is, can Americans discern a lesser of two evils?Elections in the US have already begun and it is estimated that about 30% of the electorate will have already cast their votes by November 8.Thirty-seven states have laws that allow people to cast absentee ballots without having to give a reason. Millions of people have already made up their minds, even with a damning report and undercover footage on Tuesday of a Mafia-type organisation aligned to the Clinton campaign that was commissioned to pay and train mentally ill people to incite violence at Trump rallies.We re now learning new, appropriated terms belonging to this dark underworld, such as birddogging , which is to create anarchy, racism and ultimately negative press at Republican rallies.We also know, with the help of Wikileaks, that the Clinton campaign has been conspiring with media outlets such as The New York Times to destroy Trump s image. Clinton campaign chairperson John Podesta s leaked emails serve as proof that big media have been aiding and warning the campaign of impending dangers, much like secret-service organisations. It s the death of journalism as we know it.Saying that doesn t absolve Trump from tainting his own image. He s lied about calling women names and has called for their punishment if they underwent abortion all well-documented rants.Clinton is somewhat correct when she paraphrased on Wednesday night Bernie Sanders calling Trump the most dangerous person to run for president in the history of America .But it s not for the reasons that she s been feeding the masses that makes him pernicious; it s not because he gropes women, hides taxes or speaks tactlessly in an often regressive PC environment. Trump is a simpleton, albeit a very rich and successful one, and there s nothing more perilous than a simpleton in power.Yes, he s anti-establishment and the US needs someone, an outsider, to shake up a depraved political and financial system that only seems to rack up debt and impoverish its citizens.But Trump is not that outsider. He has knowledge gaps concerning foreign policy, he s never led an army and doesn t give credit to shaky but functional treaties with old foes.It s difficult to say whether Trump is idealistic or naive about how he d like the world to function under his presidency but it s this kind of uncertainty that will have the American voter unresolved. In his defence, Ronald Reagan wasjust a silver screen star who turned around the fortunes of millions of Americans.It s evident that the bigger part of America s populace is triggered by personalities and not by facts. The Trump campaign has the upper hand when it comes to digging up dirt on Clinton s dubious political career.Whether or not Russian intelligence services aided Wikileaks in hacking and releasing Clinton campaign and Clinton Foundation emails, the facts are now known.But the American public will prefer to harp on personality traits, gender, race and old scare terms Russia and communists as if it s the 50s McCarthy era again than look at the underlying issue, the US economy.During Wednesday s debate, moderator and Fox anchor Chris Wallace told the candidates the Nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget had forecast that either of their economic plans would result in a massive debt rise. Ultimately it s up to American voters, many of them socialist millennials who know little of economic super cycles, to do their homework about which of the plans would yield better results in the long term.On the one hand you have Trump s plan to reduce taxes for all enterprises so that ordinary citizens can start businesses and create jobs without interference from Washington and on the other, a Clinton platform that seeks to tax the 1% to fill the depleted social grants and Obamacare coffers.What the latter plan risks doing is driving out big employers to tax havens, reducing production and economic growth, already the case under President Barack Obama. It also sounds like a plan created to win votes but sure to fail citizens when she s voted into power. Trump was also branded anti-democratic during the final debate, after he was asked whether he would accept defeat if Clinton won the election. What I m saying now is I will tell you at the time (after the election). I will keep you in suspense, okay? Trump has been saying in the past week that the elections are rigged and the Washington Times has investigated his claim, citing at least 10 instances where voting discrepancies have been registered. In one example, dead people voted in Colorado.Rigged or not, one thing is absolutely clear. The biggest loser after this election will be American people.Kalin PashalievPashaliev is a writer and social commentator