Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was at the centre of another storm yesterday following his questioning of the current SARS leadership under commissioner Tom Moyane.Yesterday s indirect confrontation between Gordhan and Moyane occurred a day after the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) announced it would prosecute Gordhan for fraud.Yesterday, Gordhan, in a written reply to a question from DA MP David Maynier, said he first became aware of allegations against Jonas Makwakwa when he read about them in a Sunday newspaper. Gordhan said SARS still had to officially inform him of the Makwakwa matter.Makwakwa, the No 2 at SARS, has been fingered in receiving suspicious payments of R1.7m over a six-year period.He also allegedly used his influence to secure a promotion for his girlfriend, KellyAnne Elskie. Both have been suspended.It was perturbing, Gordhan had informed Maynier, that Makwakwa had been allowed to remain in his post. Gordhan said the Makwakwa incident and other matters raised serious concerns about the stewardship of a vital fiscal institution.Yesterday, Moyane was at Parliament to present SARS annual report to the standing committee on finance. Committee chairperson Yunus Carrim allowed him to give the report before MPs could question him about Makwakwa.Moyane was in China when a letter from Financial Intelligence Centre head Murray Michell was delivered to his office on May 17. A day later, he was back in his office. He took the letter home.Upon opening it, Moyane said: I changed colour from what I saw. I was about to puke. I read allegations that were serious. I could not sleep. The following day I had consternation in my heart. A colleague, unaware of what was happening, suggested to Moyane that he didn t look well and should go home. This gave me relief because I did not want to see this man in front of me. To maintain confidentiality and avoid leaks, Moyane said he had not shared the document with anyone. On May 19, he called the head of human resources. I said I was at a loss at what I was reading here. I had to tell the head of HR. The next day he wrote to Michell acknowledging his letter . He met Michell a month later and told him he had looked at the letter with the seriousness that it deserved because it referred to corruption and money laundering.He indicated to Michell that he would like some assistance on how to go about it . On the same day he wrote to Makwakwa and his girlfriend telling them he had a letter in which serious allegations against them were made.Moyane said he did not make a reckless approach to the issue. He had also adhered to the SARS disciplinary code and applied confidentiality. He had maintained confidentiality and only informed his executive after he had suspended Makwaka.Meanwhile, Gordhan also featured in a briefing at the justice portfolio committee when NPA head Shaun Abrahams said he was prepared to review fraud charges against Gordhan if he made representations to him. I m more than willing to review any matter if someone applies to me to review that matter, Abrahams said.news@thenewage.co.za