The Gauteng provincial government says it has made great progress towards settling its municipal debt, having paid a total of R587m by the end of September towards the money it owes to municipalities.Responding to questions in the legislature this week about the millions owed to Gauteng municipalities, Premier David Makhura said the outstanding debt had been reduced by almost half to R458m from R892m. Makhura said the average age of the debt had also been reduced from more than 120 days to 30 days. This is tremendous progress compared to where we were in November 2015. The debt management committee composed of the Gauteng provincial Treasury, department of cooperative governance and traditional affairs and municipalities has been doing a good job in processing all payments and dealing with disputes on billing, Makhura said.He said the current administration had made a commitment as far back as 2014 to ensure challenges relating to billing and unpaid municipal rates were addressed. The budget allocation from 2015-16 financial year and over the Medium Term Expenditure Framework period for municipal services and rates is now ring-fenced and closely monitored by the committee.The committee meets monthly with each municipality and the government departments to validate outstanding accounts and payments to date and reach an agreement on how the outstanding amount will be paid to municipalities.The committee had in the past financial year facilitated payments totalling more than R2bn for municipal rates and services. Makhura said billing disputes had been the source of delay in payment and in many instances, the provincial departments have been over-charged. This is the experience residents and business go through. The committee is also paying attention to billing problems. The billing problem has led to a situation where some municipalities end up owing departments due to over-charging them. With regard to departments owing the Emfuleni municipality, the premier said the outstanding R46bn would be settled by end of March 2017. Earlier, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba had threatened to disconnect services at defaulting departments if the provincial government failed to cough up R259m in outstanding municipal rates. Failure to do so will result in the city taking immediate action, where possible cutting off services to defaulting departments, Mashaba said.ntombin@thenewage.co.za