The Government Employees Medical Scheme (Gems) is reviewing a R60m telemarketing and distribution contract after allegations of impropriety against leading contenders came to the fore.Three companies, Teledirect, Communex and Matswale, are at the centre of governance, bribery and misconduct allegations as a squabble over the lucrative contract gets nasty.The companies all want the contract to run Gems s telemarketing and call centre. Other companies that tendered declined to comment and referred The New Age to the principal officer of Gems.Gems is a medical scheme designed to meet the healthcare needs of the government s employees.Any instability at the institution could be devastating for thousands of its members and employees.It is alleged that Teledirect won the account three years ago in unusual circumstances and after losing the account recently, allegedly due to bad service lodged a grievance and complaint with the medical scheme on the basis of governance.Damning allegations have been levelled against Gems senior executives, contracts and operations director Bella Mfenyana and the executive of communications and member affairs, Liziwe Konyana, for being party to under-handed dealings. Mfenyana and Konyana are accused of awarding contracts irregularly to Metswale and Communex.It is alleged that a shareholder in both these companies is Mfenyana s boyfriend, Thabiso Duda.Gems insiders say Mfenyana has financial interests in these companies by way of referral fees and an indirect shareholding. They are calling for the return of Eugene Watson, the founding CEO of Gems. They say he would root out the corruption. The medical scheme did its best under his leadership, they said.There are also concerns that aside from the material conflict of interest in this relationship, Communex is not an authorised financial services provider. So how can Communex render the service? They do not have the infrastructure or experience in the field, Gems sources, who say their ultimate goal is to protect jobs, Gems members and the scheme, said.Dr Guni Goolab, principal officer of Gems, confirmed there were teething problems regarding tender impropriety but declined to answer specific questions sent to him.In an email response, he said: This serves as confirmation that an objection has been raised with the Government Employees Medical Scheme following a transparent tender process. This matter is being formally investigated in accordance with due governance and scheme processes. The scheme is unfortunately not in a position to respond to your questions until this formal investigation is completed and a determination is reached. We can, however, confirm that the scheme delivers services by contracting service providers through a formal, documented supply chain process with external, independent oversight, which is at all times followed in the appointment of service providers. Both Mfenyana and Konyana declined to comment on specific allegations.Thabiso Duda of Communex initially requested an extension to respond to the specific allegations of the story.After three days, Duda sent an email saying: Thank you for your email and for extending your deadline so that I can respond to your questions. To begin with, I find the content of your correspondence unusual. Nonetheless, kindly direct your correspondence to the parties referred to. The CEO of Teledirect, Kevin Booysen, also declined to shed light on the matter. Instead his lawyer, Larry Marks, directed a letter to The New Age which did not answer specific allegations.-Samuel Mungadze