There is a new revolution that is taking the world by storm called the Digital Revolution.So significant is this change that many analysts refer to it as the Fourth Industrial Revolution.The most significant characteristic of this occurrence is the rapid pace of its change and impact. The onset of the digital revolution is not twenty years in the future but it is upon us now.The first industrial revolution occurred around the 1780s,when water and steam power was used to mechanise the production processes; the second industrial revolution happened in the 1870s, when electric power was introduced to boost mass production and this saw the introduction of the internal combustion engine and the aeroplane.The third industrial revolution occurred in the 1960s when electronic and information technology was introduced to production, giving rise to personal computers and the internet.The fourth Industrial revolution is with us now in which technologies are merging the physical, digital and biological worlds.This phenomenon is now disrupting the world as we know it. At the heart of the fourth industrial revolution, is the fact the billions of people are now connected through mobile devices such as cellphones and tablets that have large processing power and storage capabilities.Machines are becoming more intelligent consider that it is now common practice, if you need information you simply Google it; you switch on the washing machine and a computer programme guides the washing process.The examples are too many to mention and already there is talk of the introduction of driverless cars. What will happen to workers of the future? Are we future proofing our youth and children and teaching the existing workers to adapt?To consider the impact of technology, a ministerial meeting focusing on the digital economy was convened by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in Cancun Mexico, to highlight the significance of the fourth industrial revolution.Labour Deputy Minister iNkosi Phathekile Holomisa presented a paper and participated in a panel discussion that focused on what actions can help workers displaced by increased digitalisation, find jobs and career pathways to meaningful, satisfying and well-paid work.In his paper the deputy minister said that as companies become more reliant on technology, employment relations are becoming less personal, breaking down loyalties between the employer and employee.This in turn has the effect of eroding job security, making workers more vulnerable.He pointed out the following:1. In order to assist workers to participate in the new digital economy, it is important for employment policies to focus on the creation of more digital jobs which include both the direct technology jobs and the jobs where technology is a key tool.2. Focusing on digital jobs creates the capacity for technological innovation and adoption in an economy. No economy will remain competitive if they do not invest some effort in developing the digital workforce. Take the example of a very typical job in the motor mechanic. Cars today demand the motor mechanic to be skilled in both mechanics and electronics to be able to service or repair a car.3. As the custodian of labour policy, the government must create the conditions where the business sector can be encouraged and incentivised to start up new initiatives and to grow and stabilise these initiatives.4. This can be done by creating the enabling policy and regulatory environment for entrepreneurship and innovation; having appropriate financing to support innovative start-ups and enterprises; investing in the national innovation infrastructure, including broad band and better internet access with low cost for access and universal access; build the allied support industries that are complementary to the digitisation of the economy, namely stable and reliable supply of electricity, efficient logistics and transportation for workers and reforming education policies to be responsive to the new skills sets required by employers.Education must start at grass roots level, as many of the children starting school in 2016 will be potential workers in the digital economy by 2030.5. Empowering the workforce to be both well-skilled and aware of their rights and responsibilities will prepare workers so that technology is seen as something that complements their daily activities rather than that which replaces them.6. Critical to the actions to be taken to assist workers to navigate through the digital world of work is to have appropriate skills development strategies, and employment practices that encourage workplace learning to bridge the gap between formal education and the skills and competencies that are needed by the employers.7. This can be in the form of internships, learnerships and volunteer programmes that encourage worker development. The focus should also be on developing technical skills through artisan development programmes, as automation requires services for the upkeep and repair of often complex and sophisticated electronic equipment and the development of soft skills that help workers become more creative and better communicators, managers and team members.8. Some workers might not have the means to learn new skills like older workers. Low skilled or workers with disabilities might have specific barriers to being able to adapt to new systems or processes introduced by employers. There is a need for increased career guidance and life skills interventions to help them cope.9. One of the biggest benefits of the digital economy is that it is stimulating a service industry in which customers are demanding instant resolution of their requests.Traditional shopping stores are fast giving way to on-line stores, requiring more workers in the customer service sector and the transportation sector, as businesses are increasingly promising same day deliveries.10. Increased connectedness and digital services have also impacted on the traditional 9-5 jobs that most workers are accustomed to; businesses now offer 24 hour support to customers, meaning new contractual relations.Employers are also creating more temporary or contract type jobs. It will still be critical for governments to consider how to develop programs that are not based on traditional employment relationships, to ensure that worker rights are protected.11. There must be appropriate labour market information that could anticipate and respond to the opportunities and challenges created by how employers and workers use technology. In this way appropriate measures can be taken to improve the lives of workers.12. There must be processes to identify what skills are most in demand in the market and thus prepare job seekers to get better jobs, while reducing the delays businesses face in securing human resources.13. One of the biggest barriers to workers gaining access to the labour market, in South Africa is the lack of appropriate networks to connect workers to jobs.There should therefore be a creation of support groups, networks of workers, and other social networking opportunities to allow individuals to learn from each other s experiences and be exposed to job opportunities that are available.14. We are witnessing a revolution in the workplace brought about by the introduction of technology, the consequence of which is that the nature of work is changing, with jobs either being transformed or made obsolete. Assisting workers to adapt to the new environment is critical to ensure that there can be sustained socio-economic development.15. The deputy minister maintains that the focus until now has been on literacy and numeracy skills; critical for the future is now the concept of digital literacy.Are you ready?Sagren GovenderSagren Govender is chief director of work seeker services and technical support for public employment services branch in the Department of Labour. He recently accompanied the deputy minister s delegation to the meeting of OECD labour ministers in Cancun, Mexico