The University of Witwatersrand(Wits) Student Representative Council (SRC) has on Tuesday appealed to students who are attending classes to listen to calls of thousands of their peers. SRC’s questioned students attending classes, amid violent protests, on the meaning of their degree if they ignore the plight of the poor and working class, comfortably sitting at labs whilst others are brutalised. Police will be deployed to various buildings on Tuesday to stop any disruption of classes, Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel said. Patel said if they can get through the next two weeks, they can continue with the 2016 academic year. She added that it is a difficult time but they remain positive and will try to save the academic year. The situation is currently peaceful at Wits with heavy police presence at most of the institution’s entrances. Student protests might intensify on Tuesday as Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) will mobilise all ots units to support students until free education. EFF Gauteng called on all students across the country at various campuses to show decisive solidarity towards the unrelenting struggle for free education. “Avail yourself for the Ultimate 2016 Shutdown of the major universities in Gauteng and show solid solidarity with the struggle of our children!
We shall never retreat and we shall never surrender!,” said the statement issued by EFF Gauteng Provincial Command. Wits SRC has hit back about Vice-Chancellor Adam Habib for not addressing the students for four weeks as they protest. Protesting students occupied Braamfontein on Monday, where shops were looted and a bus was set a light, reportedly not by university students. Police and students clashed in Braam, stun grenades, teargas and rubber bullets were fired to disperse the crowds. A Catholic priest was injured after being hit by a rubber bullet. The Wits SRC has distanced itself from the burning of the bus. We are confident that it is not our students who were involved in these activities&we distance ourselves from these actions. #FeesMustFall — Wits SRC (@WitsSRC) October 11, 2016  Students have been protesting for the past three weeks, with clashes between private security, students and SAPS across universities in the country. Many students were arrested and many others injured. –Keitumetsi Motlhale