Bullying is not an individual problem but a societal problem reflecting fault lines within family and societal structures, is often a mirror of underlying problems suffered by the bully.Clinical psychologist and founder of PsychMatters Centre Joanna Kleovoulo said children who show defiant and antisocial behaviour were inclined to be bullies, as were children who have a strong need to feel powerful because they lack self esteem. Children who have well developed stress regulating systems in their brains are able to contain overwhelming feelings and not act out in frustration. A neurochemical Gaba (gamma-aminobutyric acid) is correlated with the calming ability in such a brain. Anger is a genetically ingrained response to certain conditions such as frustration of anticipated reward, being shamed, restricted freedom of action and isolation, she said.Kleovoulou said the triggers indicated that bullies were in need of biological, psychological and social help or intervention. When bullying is identified within the school system, it can be seen as an opportunity to realign the imbalance of power. Some adults believe that bullying is part of growing up, that it builds character and that hitting back is the only way to tackle the problem. Aggressive responses tend to lead to more violence and more bullying for the victims. Teaching children how to stand up for their rights, to be assertive rather than aggressive and to access their support through friends, teachers, parents and professional services is vital to address this problem and create a peaceful society, she said.She said that Department of Education s anti-bullying policy was inadequate in dealing with the problem as underlined by incidents in the last few months. In the most recent incident, a KwaZulu-Natal school pupil was punched, kicked and tossed to the ground for snitching on his bully for bringing a knife to school.Another case involved a 16 year old who was videotaped threatening a 14-year-old pupil from Groote Schuur High in Cape Town. The police better escort you or I will escort you to your grave, the teen bully tells the victim toward the end of the video.Kleovoulou said often parents and teachers were unable to minimise this problem either because they were not sure how to deal with it effectively or they did not comprehend its severity and the impact this may have on a child s overall development. I do not believe enough has been done by the Department of Education to institute an official bullying protocol in public schools where the consequences and steps are used to follow a procedure when this violation occurs. A 2013 survey of 2064 pupils between the ages of 13 and 21 by a South African consumer insights company, Pondering Panda, found that 57% of pupils felt they had been victims of bullying at school.The study showed that 68% of pupils were concerned about being physically assaulted or threatened with a weapon at school, with 45% pupils believing that other pupils brought guns and knives to school. Kleovoulou listed a number of reasons why bullying occurs, including cultural factors.Lesley Tshamanonews@thenewage.co.za