Gauteng Premier David Makhura said the provincial government is determined to drive the agenda of deepening an efficient financial system in the townships.Makhura was addressing delegates who attended the township economy revitalisation in Ivory park in Tembisa on Thursday. He said government&#8217;s goal is to ensure that the township stock exchange supports local economic development. We are in discussions with the JSE to identify alternative and innovative sources of funding to revitalise the township economy. We are in conversation with stockvels to identify innovative ways of channeling community savings into productive investment, the Premier added.He said the government&#8217;s intention is to provide a platform for emerging entrepreneurs who wish to raise capital, to do so in a well regulated manner. Makhura urged businesses who were ready to establish alternative stock exchange to list their businesses. We also want to offer non-financial support to entrepreneurs to grow their business and have access to markets. The provincial government want to assist township enterprises to access funding from the private sector, Makhura said.Meanwhile MEC of Economic Development, Agriculture and Rural Development Lebohang Maile told entrepreneurs that government was now spending R6bn to assist township businesses.The MEC added that the province has about 8 cooperative banks with a market value amounting to R100m, and that government needs to consolidate it. We want to instill a culture of investment and collaboration in our township entrepreneurs. We want to ensure that we integrate our people in the mainstream economy, we want to create jobs, Maile said.The MEC told delegates that if township entrepreneurs cannot finance their ideas, they will remain a pipe dream, that&#8217;s why government is there to help.Chichi Maponya, a businesses woman said government has played a major role in getting the license for the Africa Exchange, an alternative to JSE. She said the Africa Exchange will assist entrepreneurs to access funding. The Africa Exchange will provide entrepreneurs with the opportunity to grow their businesses, Maponya added.Gauteng Premier David Makhura also told township entrepreneurs that government is always on the ground, engaging with different sectors to resolve challenges in the economy and communities. We are serious about transforming our townships to become serious economic nodes and centres of manufacturing. The township economy is estimated at R7bn, the Premier said.Among those who attended the township economy revitalisation to encourage township entrepreneurs is Sakhumzi restaurant owner Sakhumzi Maqubela.-Sipho Jack