Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini is at odds with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa s claims of steady progress being made at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) engagements on the national minimum wage.Dlamini, making reference to the 18-month haggling between the government, business, labour and the community constituencies at the Nedlac discussions, said the government could have done more to expedite the national minimum wage. The slow progress started in 2014 and it is 2016. It is clear that it won t be implemented by the end of the year we can t call it good progress. The government should have said, South Africa needs to legislate a national minimum wage, Dlamini said.He believed the government entered the discussions with a half-measured approach. The government has placed the level (of the wage) so low, even worse than business at times. It s a problem. Dlamini s comments come in the wake of Ramaphosa hailing the progress at Nedlac on the minimum wage. He said the advisory panel tasked with determining the modalities of the wage would finalise the matter by November. Dlamini, commenting on the matter being finalised before the end of the year, said the government would have to assure Cosatu that it would address its concerns over business-specific exemptions from a national minimum wage and the level of the wage. We are concerned about the level and the exemptions. That will show how much we have travelled on this journey, he said. Others still argue that a national minimum wage would lead to wholesale job losses. It s not true, you can t just throw in a broad blanket statement. Dlamini said high and excessive executive pay was the elephant in the room during the discussions at Nedlac. He said exorbitant executive pay in corporate SA undermined efforts at tackling the apartheid wage legacy. It won t achieve that.The national minimum wage puts a benchmark for a minimum wage, it won t solve the serious gaps of inequality. That is why we are linking the discussions to the issue of free higher education, the comprehensive social security system and the National Health Insurance (NHI), Dlamini said.He also slammed Shoprite CEO Whitey Basson s R100m pay cheque over the past year as an illustration of the skewed distribution of resources in the economy. I m sure Basson must be saying we must blame the board for his salary but he is ignoring morality. He is an individual who operates in a space of disadvantaged workers and he is happy to cash up and smile all the way to the bank. Dlamini said he was baffled by how big business would want to put a cap on low wages but was averse to putting a cap on CEO pay. It undermines the attempts to reduce the wage gap. Cosatu has raised this debate before, even to the ANC, that we want to talk about regulation, putting a cap on the salaries of director-generals and CEOs in the private sector, he said.Bonolo Selebano bonolos@thenewage.co.za