The ANC s deputy secretary-general, Jessie Duarte, yesterday praised Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s announcement of an 18% increase for higher education, which, she said, was the second highest amount in the budget, next to debt interest being repaid. I think we ve come a long way. The students assisted are the poor, the working class, Duarte said.Referring to the protests that had occurred outside Parliament, Duarte said the interests of those who wanted to continue with their studies had to be balanced against those who say they will fight to the finish. All of this has to end at some point in agreement and understanding that we have made progress. None of us want this (clashes outside the legislature). ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa praised Gordhan for delivering a pragmatic and confidence-instilling Medium Term Budget Policy Statement. The ANC is particularly pleased that the government, in managing the choices and trade-offs it must make, remains committed to fiscal consolidation balanced by the need for adequate financing of our social transformation programmes targeting particularly the poor and the working class. The national Treasury has responded particularly well to the students call for greater funding for higher education. The commitment of an additional R9bn to higher education funding is a significant leap forward in our quest for the progressive realisation of free education for the poor, Kodwa said.The SACP also welcomed Gordhan s statement and said that it supports the strong theme running through the minister s statement on eliminating wasteful and fruitless expenditure across the state and the public sector as a whole and on zero tolerance to corruption .Gordhan s budget statement cannot be separated from his appearance in court on fraud charges next week, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said. Gordhan was a minister who wanted to rally the nation. But the reality was that his hands were tied behind his back. Some of the things he did not discuss were the fact that growth had declined, Maimane said. And if we are not growing the economy due to political interference this is going to have a consequence, he said.Julius Malema said the EFF had come to Parliament because the budget is an important subject in our society and therefore you can t stay away when issues are being tabled on how much money will be spent on social grants. It s not about a minister of finance. We disagree with this budget, especially on issues of education and nuclear (energy). But we are here to perform our duties to look after the money of South Africans. We cannot give nuclear (energy) to Eskom , Malema said.Cope s Mosiuoa Lekota was sceptical about the money given to education. We don t know how much money he s talking about. How much money is available this year, next year and the year thereafter? Dennis Cruywagen dennisc@thenewage.co.za