Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba has on Wednesday condemned the act of violence and the damages caused during student protests in the inner city.Mashaba said the estimated cost of the Rea Vaya bus that was torched on Tuesday night is around R3.3m. The mayor also expressed concern that the perpetrators have not been arrested for the criminal act. If you damage property, if you loot, if you commit any criminal activity, you must be arrested. I have requested Member of Mayoral Committee (MMC) for Public Safety, Michael Sun, to ensure that Johannesburg Metro Police Department(JMPD) are prepared to respond to any criminal activity should it happen, as required of the JMPD by the National Police Services Act, the Mayor added.Last week students went on a rampage, when they started smashing windows of a Puma store in Braamfontein and later looting it, and then pelted motorist with stones and also torched a municipality bus.Students are protesting in a call for free education for all. However Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande said the country can&#8217;t afford free education for all students but was able to cater for the poor.Meanwhile Mashaba said he had sworn to uphold the Constitution as well as to protect the city residents and their property. He added that as public servants the best interest of the people must always come first.He said it is reported that the violent protest originates from protesting students at Wits. The plight of poor students is one with which I sympathise. This plight is one with which I personally identify, having once been a poor student myself without money for even the basic necessities such as food, the city Mayor said.Wits management echoed the Mayor&#8217;s words by adding that the protesters acts jeopardise the lives of students and places others at risk. This is after a bus and police van were set alight on Tuesday.The institution said its working with the police to make sure all the perpetrators can be apprehended as soon as possible. The bus service will run with additional security this morning. Pick-up and drop off s will occur within campus perimeters, Wits said.The provincial police spokesperson Kay Makhubela said: &#8220;we are investigating a case of malicious damage to property. We believe the perpetrator who have committed the crimes will be arrested in the matter of time.&#8221;-Sipho Jack