As Shakes Mashaba stepped up to the podium yesterday morning to announce the Bafana Bafana squad that will face Senegal in a 2018 World Cup qualifier, Wayne Arendse was paying serious attention.Though he still had a small hope of making it, the CAF Champions League winning defender had long resigned himself to missing out once more as has been the norm in recent years.Despite playing a big role in Sundowns defence on their way to winning the Champions League, two Absa Premiership titles, the Nedbank Cup and Telkom Knockout title in the space of three years, Arendse has not made the Bafana squad.The 31 year old has one Bafana cap to his name, acquired in 2012. As disappointing as it has been for the defender, he is happy to get game time and backing from Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane. I always think about it. I m always keeping an eye.I am always listening, hoping my name would be there. I can only control what I can control. I am doing my job at the club.The coach is happy. I am happy. I won t lie, I am hoping for a call up, but it is not up to me, Arendse said. I guess the people have their own plans. Good luck to those who are there. I am disappointed, but it is out of my hands. I have been scoring goals even though my primary goal is to defend. I feel I have stepped up, especially in the CAF Champions League, the Sundowns defender said.The defender is presently frustrated by his prolonged contract negotiations with the club. The only thing that kept him going has been to win the champions league.Ironically, this is something he never even thought of when he escaped relegated Santos to join Sundowns in 2012. My contract is not done. Hopefully we will conclude soon. We were busy with the Champions Lleague. I want to stay. The ball is in Sundowns court.I am hoping they do it sooner rather than later, Arendse said. But I am happy. I just left Santos to win some sort of a trophy in the PSL to add it to my CV.I never thought I d be standing here with a Champions League medal around my neck. I now have five trophies with the team. I never saw it happening. This shows that nothing is impossible. I was disappointed not to make the CAF final.Those guys knew I was on a yellow. The Zamalek player knew I was on a yellow. I did not do anything wrong. He tricked the ref, and today I am a winner. I saw him on the pitch there crying. I got the last laugh, the lanky defender said.Arendse is expected to play a part when Sundowns welcome Cape Town City at the Lucas Moripe Stadium on Sunday at 3.30pm.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za