For six years, Teko Modise, a player with undoubted talent, was thought to have been cursed for his failure to win trophies with SuperSport United and Orlando Pirates.Even his first two years at Mamelodi Sundowns did not yield anything. At the same time, his former side SuperSport United went on to win three back-to-back league titles, while Orlando Pirates won the double treble.After enduring frustrating periods Modise finally won his first title in the form of the league in 2014. Not only did that end his trophy drought, it also ended Sundowns seven year wait for a trophy. Since then, Modise has won the Telkom Knockout and the Nedback Cup as well as a second league title. Now the 33 year old is on the brink of winning the CAF Champions League.Not bad for a supposedly cursed player. Sundowns, who travelled to Egypt last night, will face Zamalek in Alexandria on Sunday night in the second leg of the Champions League final. The Brazilians enjoy a 3-0 lead after hammering the White Knights at the Lucas Moripe Stadium last Saturday. We need to take this moment. An opportunity is presented and we need to take it. We have to be proud of this moment. This is the biggest moment for me at club level. Not just for me but for the club. It would be an honour to win it. Looking at the hardships I had, this would be great. I always say everything happens at its own time, Modise said. This makes all my sacrifices worth it. I don t even look at people who say I was cursed. I won the league and it was never about me. I won t tell people to look at me it will look like I am bitter, I am never bitter. I am just focused on my game. Modise also urged his teammates to remain focused as Zamalek are more than capable of turning around the 3-0 scoreline. Football is very funny. Zamalek won 4-0 at home and lost 5-2 in the next match. We need an away goal. We have to play our normal attacking game. Defence is the best form of attack. They will have fans behind them, we cannot be relaxed. We don t think of what they have done. They are a different team. It will be a tricky game, but we cannot allow them to get a footing. MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE| mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za