It might feel like yesterday when we were first introduced to the name Scalo in local fashion circles, but in reality, the brains behind one of the country s most talked about clothing apparel s Sello Medupe, has managed to hold his own against the old pro with an alluring combination of self belief, professional confidence and competence.Even when faced with an unfair scrutiny in an industry where accusations of plagiarism are easily thrown at one another, the Soweto-born always manages to shake the dust off.We are talking about someone who has not only become a regular on major fashion weeks runways but whose sparkling creations can be seen adorning some of Mzansi s A-listers like Thembi Seete, Zizo Beda, Pearl Modiadie, Boity Thulo, Nomzamo Mbatha and Vuyo Dabula. While Medupe s journey and eminent rise to the higher echelons of SA fashion was inevitable considering his long record as a fashion aficionado, he revealed that making inroads into the mainstream fashion scene was not as easy. It s been a long journey for me to be where I am now and finally get the recognition I deserve and worked so hard for, he said. I ve always been fascinated by the world of fashion, especially sketching designs.When boys my age were out hanging out in the streets, I would lock myself indoors, watch television and read magazines trying to learn how to draw fashion sketches. In fact, I taught myself how to sketch from scratch and by the time I reached my teen years in grade 9, I was able to convince my mother to buy me my first sewing machine. His next big step was finding a reputable designer to work with and learn from. I started doing research on some of the big fashion players then and that s how I eventually came to work and intern for Palesa Mokubung s reputable Mantsho label as a beader, he said. I learnt a lot from her, from the art of fashion designing to learning how a strong business acumen is crucial for one to make it in this business. His mother agreed to enrol him at Sew Africa College. His foray into mainstream fashion came a year after he founded Scalo clothing label in 2010 when he took part in Africa Fashion International s Fast Track initiative during the Joburg Fashion Week.His penchant for dressing women and bridging the gap between avantgarde and accessible wearables has become an integral part of his business. He s renowned for his sleek, edgy, futuristic designs for women who know where they are going, are sophisticated, timeless and like to stand out in the crowd.Tonight, Jozi fashionistas will witness how Scalo Designs has evolved over the years during an exclusive preview of his latest collection hosted by Martell Cognac in his new studio in the heart of Maboneng.TANKISO KOMANE |tankisok@thenewage.co.za