The city will spend approximately R171m on a major road in the Kommetjie area which is intended to relieve congestion on the main traffic routes and at key intersections.The project will commence on Monday next week, if all goes as planned and is set to take place over a period of 30 months, pending any unforeseen challenges, the city of Cape Town said yesterday.The Kommetjie road project is part of the city s congestion management programme which has prioritised Kommetjie as one of the areas in need of intervention. The peak-hour period on roads leading to and from Kommetjie, Sun Valley, Sunnydale, Masiphumelele, Capri, Imhoff s Gift and Ocean View exceeds three hours. We have therefore committed to spending R171m on new road infrastructure, including dual carriageways, to alleviate the congestion along sections of Kommetjie Road and Ou Kaapse Weg, the city s mayoral committee member: transport for Cape Town, councillor Brett Herron. We will also provide infrastructure for the high number of pedestrians and cyclists in the area as well as queue-jump lanes for public transport vehicles such as minibus taxis and buses to benefit public transport users. The roadworks will cover a distance of approximately 3.5km including Kommetjie Road (M65) which will be upgraded to a four-lane dual-carriageway between Capri Drive and Corsair Way. The existing roadway will be rehabilitated.Queue-jump lanes will be provided for public transport vehicles on Kommetjie Road at the intersection with Ou Kaapse Weg. We will address the lack of infrastructure for pedestrians along Kommetjie Road and Ou Kaapse Weg with the provision of walkways that are separate from the road so that pedestrians have safe access routes to their destinations. The walkways will be constructed on either side of the carriageways they will be 3m wide and can be shared by pedestrians and cyclists, Herron said. The newly constructed carriageways will also have shoulders that are 2.4m wide to accommodate cyclists. Non-motorised transport is pivotal to the city s efforts to reduce private vehicle use. This means that with every road infrastructure project, we will try to make provision for pedestrians and cyclists where the conditions allow for it as part of creating a sustainable and functioning city. The project includes the upgrading and replacement of underground water mains, the upgrading of existing and construction of new stormwater infrastructure, and the relocation of electrical cables and ducting for fibre-optic cables. We will also plant over 500 young trees, beautify the intersections with water-wise plants, and install benches where appropriate. New street lights will be installed along Kommetjie Road and Ou Kaapse Weg, Herron said.It was the intention to have two-way traffic flow at all times for the duration of this project and this requirement has been written into the construction contract. This means that the implementation of a stop-go system will not be allowed apart from during an emergency, Herron said. In terms of their contract with TCT, the contractor is obliged to ensure that the current road capacity along Kommetjie Road and Ou Kaapse Weg is maintained at all times and for as long as the project continues. In practice, this means that commuters will have access to the same number of lanes during the construction period as they have available right now. These precautions were stipulated in the project contract to try to limit the inconvenience and delays to traffic as far as reasonably possible and not to worsen the current traffic congestion. However, roadworks are disruptive in nature and unexpected challenges can derail our best intentions and precautions, Herron said. Residents and visitors should therefore expect some unforeseen delays. I want to request that road users please travel outside of the peak hours where possible, opt for public transport, or make use of carpooling and car sharing where public transport services are not available. The city said it would implement measures to ensure the safety of road users during the construction period.TNA Reporter