I take this opportunity to make a contribution to an old debate regarding the SABC, because I feel compelled to correct some of the perceptions that are created by a raft of false narratives.My interest was drawn during the recent appearance of the SABC before the parliamentary portfolio committee on communications and some of the issues that were discussed there.It was a stormy affair, a no-holds-barred debate, but lacked factual content that could assist the country in making an informed decision about the way forward on the SABC.An accusation which surfaced during the debate was that the SABC board failed in its fiduciary duties and should therefore be dissolved. All eyes were focused on the minister of communications to assist or persuade the SABC board to voluntarily relinquish it s positions.Subsequently, it was legislators who made a call for an inquiry to look at the suitability of the board and whether it was able to discharge its responsibilities.I hold no brief for the SABC board, let alone the validity of an enquiry. However, it was raised in the midst of anger and bitterness. Political posturing and grandstanding seems to be the order of the day. A right the legislators don t have is to predetermine the outcome of that inquiry, by expecting the proposed outcome to dissolve the board, before such an inquiry is held. This seems to defeat the purpose of an inquiry.Clearly a disaster was averted when some legislators wanted to equate the board s appearance before the committee to an inquiry in itself. There was even advice given that the committee could dissolve the board and only then call for an inquiry.While the theatrical scenes were playing themselves out on live television, I asked myself from a layman s point of view and without the benefit of hindsight, whether they (legislators) can actually do that? Of course they can, but it would be illegal, I thought to myself. In fact, it would reek of circumventing due process.But then, when legislators want to circumvent the law, their ability to get things done is admirable, unless you are one of those being thwarted by the parliamentarians. Fortunately, a legal adviser was called in to clarify the matter and he saved the committee from itself.Undaunted, the committee went on to resolve that letters should be drafted to individual board members asking them to resign. The legal basis of these letters, in the absence of an inquiry s findings, is suspect to say the least. But even before we get there, can it be said that the current board has failed in its fiduciary duties? Let us leave that to the envisaged inquiry, but without ignoring the current facts staring us in the face.Under the board, the SABC was able to pay off its government guaranteed R1bn bank loan. Its cash flow problems are now a thing of the past. From a disclaimer of opinion for 2012-13, the worst audit opinion from the auditor-general, the corporation has moved to three audit qualifications for 2014-15 and one audit qualification for the previous financial year. Even the board s worst critics should acknowledge these achievements, lest their criticism is seen as petty prejudice and a matter of personal preference.Divisions within the SABC board were laid bare when two of its members resigned on the spot. It was supposed to be an act of courage. To the cynical (and I do have a good measure of cynicism), it was a well-calculated moment of maximum PR.Now, don t get me wrong, the two directors are perfectly within their right to step down if they feel their positions on board have become untenable. But they should know, if they are familiar with the Broadcasting Act, who the appointing authority is. The National Assembly recommends and the President appoints.In light of this, I do think the resignations were delivered to the wrong address.What s more, the resigning board members need to give three months notice. There must be a good reason for this provision, not least of which is to ensure a smooth transition, afford Parliament and the appointing authority time to identify replacements, or to simply prevent board members from jumping ship in the event of an investigation into the board. The act certainly does not contemplate impulsive resignations in the full glare of production lights and TV cameras.Those who swear by the Broadcasting Act and good corporate governance should be aware of all these provisions.My next point is on the call for the Minister of Communications Faith Muthambi to fire or suspend the SABC board. It is actually shocking and quite revealing that there are legislators and some within the ruling party who labour under the impression that she has these powers. In the meantime, an impression is being created that she is defying her party.The fact is that the minister does not have these powers.The intention of this column is not to give an exposition on the Broadcasting Act, it would nonetheless do all of us some good to read Section 15 of the act. This section is clear about how board members may be removed, by whom and following what process. Those who are urging Minister Muthambi to fire or suspend the board want her to in effect usurp powers she does not have.And that would be just plain illegal. The least citizens expect from legislators is to be familiar with the laws that they make.Lastly, I must say that it was a low point for me to witness how one of the resigning board members sought to humiliate the acting group CEO of the SABC, James Aguma, when he explained how he had relied on legal and HR advice in reinstating Hlaudi Motsoeneng to his former position before he was appointed chief operating officer.Aguma was portrayed as amateurish and bumbling, the same man who, with eight solid years working for the auditor-general and a chartered accountant by profession, has contributed tremendously in helping the corporation improve its audit outcomes.Now, I have heard that Aguma is not exactly the favourite of some, simply because he is a foreigner . The way he was treated on national television, however, gives credence to these rumours. I personally found it distasteful. South Africa should be welcoming skilled professionals from the rest of the African continent.I conclude that we need a dose of black consciousness and pan-Africanism as a rallying philosophy of the African people, at home and beyond our borders. That Parliament is an African parliament and must hold African values, but clearly, eurocentrism seems to be the order of the day!Congress MahlanguCongress Mahlangu is the president of the State Owned Entities Communicator s Association