The family of the late South African vocalist Pinise Saul is pleading for South Africans to assist in bringing her body back home following her death in London. Saul died of cancer last week Friday, after many years in London.Speaking to The New Age Pinase s nephew, Andile Saul, said the past few days had been a difficult period for the family with no financial means to fly the body of the 75-year-old singer back to the country.The family will have to raise at least R80000 for her repatriation costs. People at home in East London have nothing. We do not know how to bring her body back for burial. We are pleading with South Africa to help us, Saul said. I am going from pillar to post looking for help and right now I am trying to talk to some of her fellow musicians she worked with in London to see if they can assist us. The family reached out to influential South African musician and poet Mzwakhe Mbuli who has since committed to extending a helping hand. Mbuli said upon the family s plea he sent dozens of messages to different stakeholders, musicians and fellow South Africans to contribute in one form or another. As Africans we know that when there s a death in the family, we lend a helping hand.When I received a message from the deceased s family I approached several parties including the department of Arts and Culture, International relations and other music pioneers Mbuli said.The poet said he is awaiting a response from those he had asked for help, adding that it is unfortunate that Saul succumbed to cancer while abroad.He also attributed her death to apartheid which forced many South African artists to go to exile. Apartheid really impacted on the lives of many families. If it wasn t for that system many of our musicians would be with us today. The former member of the Ipi Ntombi group sang and recorded in South Africa from 1957 to 1975 and then went into exile. She lived for a short time in Boston, appearing with the likes of Bob Marley and Patti LaBelle, before moving to the UK.Ntokozo Gxumisanews@athenewage.co.za