The ANC has always found it necessary to assess the global balance of forces in order to recount the progress the world is making with each administration and the role we as a country are playing in that progress, to look at the shifts in ideological balances if any and their implications domestically, and whether the space the Mass Democratic Movement needs to pursue NDR has the necessary support of the prevailing forces.The world has done much and changed significantly since 2009, when the current administration took over. As the global community we were able to coordinate our response to the global economic crisis and return global economy to growth and South Africa s role and example, both through strong financial regulations and its role in the global efforts to reboot recovery ensured that in less than five years, some growth could be witnessed in certain parts of the world, and we are happy that today the world is largely on the positive trajectory.It has, however, not all been wonderful. An intergrated world means once something happens in one country, people are free and quick to move to another country to find refuge. As one of the more stable and prosperous countries, we have experienced a shift in our demographics that reflects Africans from all over the continent making their home on our shores. They enrich us, they make us better. But their journey is not always smooth. Europe has also experienced a flood of refuges looking for a new home and Europe has found itself at a crossroads.The opening of our world has been aided more so by the introduction of social media plarforms which have both helped connect our citizens but also put others at risk of predators and terrorist cells, as we witnessed a Cape Town born teenager who was luckily rescued by our intelligence on her way to join Isis.There has been a rise of new global threats, Isis, Boko Haram and other radicalised organisations, but these have also been matched with organised efforts through the United Nations and AU, such that there has been a lowering of unitary or unipolar actions in response to global threats. South Africa successfully got Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to head the African Union and this has had a very positive impact on the continent. Despite this global response to global threats, there has not been as much urgency to quickly squeeze the life out of these terrorist organisations and that remains the global weakness in how we root out terrorism and other global threats. As long is the Chibok girls remain unaccounted for, we have all been damned.What continues to ache the world, however, in spite of the global economic growth is the growing inequality. It is this inequality that results in the birth of fundamentalists and extremists, politics of sects and tribes, aggressive nationalism, crude populism, sometimes from the far left sometimes from the far right, which seeks to restore what they may consider a better time or better age.There is however reason to believe that the world today is more safer and more prosperous than it has been since the world war. It is incontrovertible that integration of the world economies has made life better for billions of people. Over the last 20 years the number of people living in absolute poverty has been cut from 40% of humanity to under 10%. It s not an abstraction, it means children have enough food to eat.The world, with more emphasis to Africa, largely embraces the need for communities to choose their own leaders. The number of so called democracies has nearly doubled in the last 25 years. Social media have given platforms to all citizens to express themselves and that has raised expectations on all of us who are in public office.However, small our contribution, we also take pride in having been the only country outside Cuba and the US where the presidents of both countries met, under the enabling spirit of Madiba, which led to the much improved relations between the two countries. We were also one of the first countries to host the Cuban 5, upon their release, something we took great pride in.As the country, we have been a real proponent of lowering global carbon emission and our presence at the COP17 and thereafter has shifted the global view on where Africa stands with regards to carbon emission. We have been very clear that as one of the poorer continents, consequences of climate change hit us the hardest. These are all achievements that must help us summon more courage in order to achieve even more global victories.We have to admit that the integration of people and technological innovations have raised the standards of living of the people around the world. Unfortunately such global integration has also seen rising levels of inequality. This has also weakened the position of workers and their ability to secure a decent wage.Yonela DikoYonela Diko is ANC Western Cape spokesperson