The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) yesterday threw down the gauntlet to its disbanded Eastern Cape provincial structure over a bid to be reinstated in the league.ANCYL national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said the league would continue to dig in its heels by refusing to reverse its national executive committee decision to dissolve its Eastern Cape provincial structure and its branches in the greater Johannesburg region. We heard that they have lodged a formal appeal with the office of the secretary-general. No appeal has been forwarded to us but we hope that those who appeal to the ANC, put the matter to us, Mkhize said.He accused the provincial structure of trying to amass political mileage over the league s decision to dissolve it. The NEC has taken a decision on the matter. We hope that they have provided reasons (as to) why they should not be disbanded. This comes against the backdrop of the league saying last month that it was planning to seek an audience with its regional leaders to explain its NEC s decision on the move.Speaking to The New Age ANC provincial secretary Butsha Lali said the league s provincial structure was awaiting a date from the ANC NEC to have its appeal heard. We are still waiting for a date to be set up by ANC national officials. The ANC s national structure is the highest decision making body, so we saw that it was fit for them to intervene in the matter, Lali said.He said that he was mystified that the ANCYL, to date has not provided tangible reasons for disbanding the structure. There are no sensible reasons. We received a letter with just two lines, one saying we have been disbanded and the other line thanked us for our contribution to the ANCYL. Lali said the provincial structure demanded that the league provided reasons for its disbandment. We deserve the right to be given valid reasons. There was no organisational basis for our disbandment, he said.ANC branches in Johannesburg also found themselves in hot water for leading an Occupy Luthuli House campaign calling for the resignation of President Jacob Zuma.In a separate matter, the league s woes continue to pile up as the DA yesterday claimed to have laid criminal charges against ANCYL Collen Maine for inciting violence by calling on ANC MK veterans to take up arms in defence of Zuma.Bonolo Selebano