&nbsp;South Africa s choristers will again meet at this year s Melting Pot Choral Festival taking place at Carnival City.The two-day musical extravaganza will also look ahead to the centenary celebrations of Oliver Tambo who would have turned 100 next year. Known to many as a freedom fighter, Tambo was equally passionate about music, most importantly, choral music.The organisers have, as a result, promised a big bash to mark this particular milestone. The founder of the fourth annual festival, Gcisa Mdlulwa, said the festival s success continues to grow as the festival becomes the continent s premium choral music affair. This year, we are looking at attracting more than 10 000 fans of choral music to Carnival City where more than 20 choirs will showcase their talents. Not only that, we have big name singers such as Sibongile Khumalo and Joyous Celebrations, as well as Londonbased opera singer, Njabulo Madlala, who will not only adjudicate the process but perform for the choral music lovers, Mdlulwa said.The competition between all the choirs has been split into two, with 10 choirs from within the borders of the country, as well as outside, vying for the ultimate R1m prize money. Another category, known as masters of the game, pits five choirs against one another for R250000 prize money.Some of the choirs in the line-up include Voices in Harmony, Zwelitsha Adult Choir, Serumule Performing Arts, Bagale Chorus, Heavenly Voices, His Majesty Correctional Services, Free State Choristers, Sounds of Joy, Eastern Cape Choir and East Rand TACC. As part of the centenary celebration, honouring the legacy of Tambo will see choristers belting out songs created to remember his legacy. It is no secret that Tambo was a dedicated chorister, conductor and aficionado and the continued growth of this festival is testament to the legacy of the man. His legacy shall live on through music made to celebrate his immense contribution, she said. In the build-up to the festival, the organisers have been running monthly contests where regional choirs competed ahead of the festival and as a result, some of the choirs from the provinces will compete for the second category.Mdlulwa said the festival contributes to the sustainability of the often neglected music genre as choirs are paid competitive rates to take part in the competition.The Eastern Cape leg of the build up took Wild Coast by storm with more than 32 choirs competing to be included in the main show. For the first time this year, we added another province due to the immense legacy of Tambo and judging by the atmosphere and great turnout, we are certain that we will spread it to more venues next year. Zakes Bantwini, Solly Mahlangu and many others have graced the melting pot of choral music.With the inclusion of Joyous Celebration, Mdlulwa has promised choral music lovers and music lovers nothing but the best two days of their lives.SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@thenewage.co.za