Although the executive has done a feasibility study on relocating Parliament to Pretoria it is up to the institution to decide the matter. The decision to relocate Parliament from Cape Town to Pretoria lies within the ambit of Parliament, President Jacob Zuma told the National Council of Provinces. It s not a matter for the Executive to decide upon. We have expressed our views on the matter, given the advantage we think will accrue to the fiscus, President Zuma said yesterday.Answering questions, he informed the House that the cabinet has tasked the Department of Public Works to investigate the merits of a relocation.An interdepartmental task has also been instituted. Represented on this task team were the national Treasury which was looking at financial and budgetary implications.Also on the team are: Justice which was focusing on the legislative requirements and processes, Public Service which was examining the administrative and human capital implications and Transport which was checking logistical implications. The South African Police was studying security and safety implications while labour was investigating the human resources implications. President Zuma said Public Works was also engaging Parliament in a review of previous needs analyses and the space audit that had been done.A preliminary analysis, he said, pointed to the same conclusions derived by previous studies. These showed the costs to relocate from Cape Town to Pretoria will be significant less than maintaining the present status quo. The seat of the legislature is a call for Parliament to make. However, the executive will continue to provide support and information to Parliament to consider the big expenditure item of maintaining two capitals. On time frames, President Zuma said it would be very difficult for the executive to decide for Parliament or even to say these are the time frames . But the feeling of Parliament s presiding officers, speaker Baleka Mbete and NCOP chairperson Thandi Modise, was that the space was not enough, he said. I think as members of Parliament you should be saying here is a matter when are we taking a decision. It would be difficult now to talk about time frames when the matter has not been decided upon. As the executive we are waiting on a decision. The quicker the decision is taken, the better. Dennis Cruywagendennisc@thenewage.co.za