Challenges with the issuing of taxi operating permits, neglected infrastructure and a lack of empowerment are some issues impacting the public transport industry.This emerged from a public transport transformation discussion hosted by the African Press Association in Johannesburg yesterday.The panel consisted of transport industry players such as Transport Education and Training Authority CEO Maphefo Anno-Frempong, TK Global Experts CEO Kamogelo Mampane, Railway Safety Regulator (RSR) CEO Nkululeko Poya and the president of South African National Taxi Council (Santaco), Philip Taaibosch.The transport indaba focused on issues pertaining to public transport policy, skills development, venture creation and support, innovation, safety, infrastructure and other transformation issues in the sector.Santaco s Thabisho Molelekwa said despite some progress made over the years, a number of impediments remained. We are the only business that operates with a licence that is reduced to a limited period, he said.Molelekwa said the impounding of taxis remained a serious challenge for taxi owners due to difficulties encountered in the issuing of permits. He estimated that more than 300 taxis were being impounded monthly. I m being conservative, this remains a big issue, he said. It has a serious bearing on the business. Thousands are lost before the taxis can be released. It has a snowballing impact. They don t issue the necessary permits for the guys to be legal. Molelekwa said a number of taxi owners were also faced with various challenges when renewing their permits. RSR head of research Cornel Malan said some of the problems in the sector included neglected infrastructure and housing built along railway stations. Some of the old existing infrastructure has not been maintained for a number of years. People living next to the railway stations and encroaching are some issues. It also emerged that some trains in the country were only communicating in Chinese and this needed to be corrected. Kamogelo Mampane from the State Owned Enterprise Procurement Forum said: We should be able to increase local content which is low in the logistics. An inquiry has been set up after a fatal train accident in Tembisa claimed a life and injured scores of commuters this week.The accident occurred when two locomotives collided. A preliminary probe showed that the accident was caused by a driver who skipped a red signal. To improve the taxi industry, the Gauteng transport department recently announced a cashless payment system known as TaxiChoice aimed at improving the taxi industry.The cashless system, expected to be piloted early next year, will enable commuters to use smartphones and cards to pay for their fares.ZODIDI MHLANA|zodidim@thenewage.co.za