President Jacob Zuma has taken a step to find solutions to the student protests which might derail academic activities across the country. The Presidency has announced on Tuesday that a Ministerial Task Team has been established to assist the Minister of Higher Education and Training to normalise the situation at higher education institutions across South Africa, working with all stakeholders. This comes after violent clashes between students, police and private security erupted. University property has been damaged, shops looted and the rest of the academic year for 2016 compromised in the call for free decolonised education at higher education institutions. According to the statement, Minister of Science and Technology Naledi Pandor, Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba, Minister of Higher Education and Training Dr Bonginkosi “Blade” Nzimande, Minister in the Presidency for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Jeff Radebe are amongst those part of the task team. President Zuma said: “We urge all stakeholders including students, university management, parents and religious leaders to cooperate with the Ministerial Task Team to ensure that the future of our children is not jeopardised.” Government reiterates its full commitment to promoting access to higher education for the children of the poor and the working class, the Presidency said. Zuma has condemned acts of violence and the destruction of property and urged all students to return to class while solutions are collectively sought to deal with the challenges in higher education in the country. The President established the Commission of Inquiry into Higher and Education and Training, in January, to investigate feasibility of free education. The inquiry was established in response to the #FeesMustFall campaign started by the University of Witwatersrand last year, and later spread across the country’s universities. Some universities across the country have remained opened despite disruptions and other institutions have suspended academic activities. Students across the country have been protesting for months over free, decolonised education for all at universities and the scrapping of fee increments which have been capped at 8%. Many arrests have been made throughout the ongoing protests at universities across the country. Students, police and private security have been injured and an employee died at the University of Witwatersrand(Wits). Meanwhile, acting Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane stated during a media briefing on security on Monday that the #FeesMustFall movement student protests are not a “state of emergency” as yet. –Keitumetsi Motlhale