Congratulations are in order! Against all odds, as Pitso Mosimane said, Mamelodi Sundowns have finally crossed the Rubicon.And what was becoming club president Patrice Motsepe s nightmare has turned into a beautiful dream come true. The Brazilians may have lost the battle on Sunday night but they won the war. If there are any Masandawana supporters who still think they are dreaming, wake them up. It s true!The journey that Sundowns went on in the quest for a star above the club s logo is one that all South African football fans should learn from.Anyone who ever doubted the importance of home-ground advantage must now be convinced. What happened in Atteridgeville last week and on Sunday in Alexandria is proof of the importance of the 12th player .That is a lesson we should now all take going forward for all our teams playing in CAF competitions. They could even let us in for free if push comes to shove, because of the tough economic time we are facing as a country. It s not easy filling up World Cup stadiums nowadays.Zamalek were made to look ordinary at Lucas Moripe Stadium and the White Knights coach, Moamen Soliman, blamed the locals for the noise they made in a jam-packed arena as his players could not hear his instructions from the touchline. Way to go.It was scary in Alexandria, especially in the second half after the hosts broke the deadlock.Show me anyone who says they were not a tad worried and I ll show you a liar. Okay, maybe Jerry Sikhosana; he s been consistent the whole week that the game had been wrapped up at home.Lesson No2 is the importance of keeping clean sheets at home. That was important in this game. Also score as many as you can in 90 minutes it may save your bacon in the away second leg.Maybe we should also take our hats off to the Gambian referee Bakary Papa Gassama for his handling of the game. He didn t put a face in the game, to paraphrase one Paul Dolezar, despite the anti-football antics of the Egyptian players and their supporters lasers and death threats .What Mosimane and his troops will now have to work out is how to deal with all the fixtures awaiting them. They have only played one league game while others are on six, as well as the Telkom Knockout Cup, the 2016 Fifa Club World Cup (December 8-18) in Japan, the Nedbank Cup when and then again the next edition of the CAF Champions League. Remember, they haven t rested since last season and may become victims of their own success.In the meantime, let s bask in some glory for a change.-Sello Rabothata