The launch of the next phase of the innovative smoke alarm project for high fire risk communities has the potential to prevent deaths of the most innocent and vulnerable members of the community.The launch has been initiated by the provincial department of local government and is aimed at combating firerelated deaths in informal settlements across the province.It was developed in response to a request from Premier Helen Zille to find solutions to the problem.Five people, including a 10-year-old girl, were killed in separate devastating shack fires. The province s disaster management spokesperson Rodney Eksteen said the number of recorded fire-related deaths in South Africa had increased from an estimated 400 in 1980 to 2 276 in 2014.Between 2009 and 2012 about 5000 informal settlements fires were reported.Speaking at the event on Tuesday, Zille said she believed this project had the ability to become a game changer of note not only in the province but also in the country. Ideally, one day I would like to see a smoke alarm in every home. These simple yet effective tools have the potential to prevent the deaths of the most innocent and vulnerable members of our families, Zille said.The MEC for local government, environmental affairs and development planning, Anton Bredell, said the project, which formed part of the Western Cape s strategic framework for fire and burn prevention known as the Fire is Everyone s Fight campaign, was showing tremendous promise. The project, which was piloted in the Breede Valley district will now be rolled out in the community of Wallacedene with the support of Santam who are assisting us in rolling out up to 2000 smoke alarms. From the department s side, we aim to roll out at least 5000 smoke alarms over the next three years, Bredell said. Eksteen said the department s three-year long research found the biggest killer in household fires to be smoke. When people are asleep and a smouldering fire starts up, the toxic smoke can cause people to go into an even deeper sleep, until breathing stops altogether. By the time a fire breaks out, it s often too late. The goal of this project is to motivate municipalities and communities to install smoke alarms in dwellings that will wake people up before it is too late. Santam s head of stakeholder relations and corporate social investment, John Lomberg said these smoke detectors would greatly reduce the risks of fatalities providing an early warning system to residents in the event of a fire.Bredell said the project was not a silver bullet to solve all the fire-related challenges. It will not prevent fires. It will not prevent all deaths. But there can be no doubt that it will save thousands of lives across this country if implemented properly. Vincent Cruywagenvincentc@thenewage.co.za