Today is the moment of truth for South Africa s economy as Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan tables his mid-term mini budget in Parliament.Trade unions yesterday made it clear that they care less about political tensions and Gordhan s legal problems than about job creation, a minimum wage and implementation of National Health Insurance (NHI). Unemployment is above 25%, meaning about 5 million people are jobless. We need the mini budget to focus on plans for job creation and the commitment to free education if the country is to tackle unemployment and inequality, Numsa spokesperson Patrick Craven told The New Age in an interview. Second, we have been promised affordable healthcare for a long time now and the government must find a way to implement it. Craven said the NHI must be treated as a matter of urgency given ever-rising healthcare costs. He said the private healthcare industry is raking in huge profits but was unaffordable for most. If the NHI is designed properly, it will genuinely provide good healthcare for the masses. He said workers wanted more clarity on the minimum wage. We want to know if it is still high on the government agenda, Craven said. Supporting Numsa s call, the National Education Health &amp; Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) said it wanted strong commitment on the minimum wage, nothing less .Khaya Xaba, Nehawu s national spokesperson, said: We want a commitment of R4 500 across the board instead of the R3000 that the government and business are currently pushing. A minimum wage of R3000 will not be enough to fund struggling families, given the rising inflation rate, Xaba said. He said rising inflation was because of capitalists who are promoting competition unnecessarily, resulting in prices for goods at supermarkets to skyrocket . Capitalists are heavily involved in collusion and price-fixing, and authorities such as the Competition Commission are not doing us any good because perpetrators always get lenient penalties. These are institutions not designed to protect the working class. The government and the Treasury must go all out to protect the working class, he said.Cosatu is on the same page. We understand the tight financial platform the government is on but it must start building towards the NHI and address the public service wage gap, Cosatu parliamentary spokesperson Matthew Parks said. Although the minimum wage is still in discussion at Nedlac, we hope this matter will be concluded in December and followed by implementation in January next year. President Jacob Zuma told Parliament yesterday that fraud charges against Gordhan were a concern for all of us and that he had never discussed the case with the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA).Zuma was responding to questions in Parliament about the charges against Gordhan, which analysts and the finance minister s supporters have said appear to be a ploy to remove him from office.The NPA has said the charges are not politically motivated.Benard Sathekge| bernards@thenewage.co.za