The #FeesMustFall leader, Mcebo Dlamini, was arrested by the police at his Parktown university residence early last Sunday morning. His detention came in the wake of incidents of violence in the streets of Braamfontein.The Wits SRC as well as leaders of the #FeesMustFall movement have distanced themselves from the violence and view Dlamini s arrest as a sinister attempt to cause instability in the movement.Mcebo Dlamini is a forceful and vocal leader of the movement, who remains a subject of debate in the daily discourse in South African.However, not once has he been associated with the criminal charges he faces, which appear absurd and more likely the work of a third force against the movement.We know that Dlamini has no prior convictions.We know that he is a member of the ANC. We know he made headlines for claiming to be a Sisulu, which he then denied. We know that he is a former president of the Wits SRC, that he has two degrees and we cannot ever forget his graduation video which went viral last year.The #FeesMustFall movement does not revolve around one individual any more, there are a plethora of leaders. In fact it is even fair to say that to some extent every student who took part as well as contributed to the fight for free decolonised education is a leader in their own right.On the first day of Dlamini s hearing at the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court, where he was represented by attorney Mongezi Ntanga, students and religious leaders showed up in great numbers in solidarity with him. This proves that even in custody Dlamini has a considerable impact on the movement as he has been at the forefront since its inception.Shaeera Kalla, one of the leaders of the movement, said that a list is being circulated with names of leaders that are being singled out as problematic in the #FeesMustFall movement. The perception is that if you get rid of these students then the movement is diminished.Students have stated that for every student that are arrested or silenced another two are born.Denying Dlamini bail will only magnify him. If anything his detention in police cells will only expand his popularity and spread his fearless ideas. Wits University has given us leaders who are thinkers throughout this movement. There is nothing more powerful than the mind. Shaeera Kalla made an interesting point that people should remember: You can cut all the flowers but you cannot keep spring from coming. Instead of addressing the real issue, state institutions would rather arrest students and deploy police to quell the quest for a free education. Why is that?These arrests will not silence the movement, it will in fact help the movement gain more momentum. One has to admire this level of activism. Why is the idea of free decolonised education so difficult to accept?What is disappointing is arbitrary third forces using the movement as a means to loot and behave like thugs or rather using violence so that people perceive the movement to be dangerous when it is actually peaceful. This reminds one of apartheid tactics. When the apartheid state wanted to derail the call for freedom in South Africa, they targeted influential leaders and used third forces to instigate black on black violence.Students are reduced to curfews and changing sleeping habits to avoid arrests. D j vu perhaps? The movement appears to be stronger than ever now and as long as Wits students hold the reins the movement and its ideas will continue to live. Wits students are the brains behind this movement.Mcebo Dlamini has been described as a man who has been blessed with the power of mind control , the power of the mind can be transferred past a prison cell, therefore the confinement of Dlamini will not equal the confinement of the movement. Police will run out of cells and any sense of human dignity if they try to arrest them all.Targeting leaders will not stifle the movement.As long as poor black students have to bear the brunt of exorbitant fees in order to get an education this fight will continue. As long as the minds of great young thinkers such as Vuyani Pambo, Fasiha Hassan, Nkululeko Tselane are the driving force there is no stopping this formidable and courageous fight.Canny MaphangaCanny Maphanga is a journalist and commentator