One of Africa s richest tobacco dealers Tribert Ayabatwa, allegedly lost close to R60m in a scam allegedly involving South African Revenue Service (SARS) officials.Ayabatwa was made to believe he was paying the settlement of outstanding taxes on his cigarette manufacturing business.Suspended second in command at the revenue authority, Jonas Makwakwa, is now being investigated for his alleged role in the scam. The case arose from a 2009 non-disclosure settlement agreement signed by the Rwandan born Ayabatwa and SARS after years of litigation in East London.Makwakwa signed the agreement on behalf of SARS. The case has added pressure on him as he is also facing another investigation after the banking regulator revealed that about R1.2m in mystery payments had found their way into Makwakwa s bank account.Mastermind Tobacco South Africa (MTSA) was the third biggest manufacturer in the highly competitive cigarette market and employed about 200 people. Its tax obligations amounted to R10m a month before its demise, which allegedly was caused by SARS rogue unit investigators.Documents seen by The New Age allege that Ayabatwa s troubles started when he rejected efforts by other cigarette dealers to buy his East London factory and any other tobacco business in South Africa in exchange for a business elsewhere for $10m (R140m). He rejected the offer.The documents allege that Ayabatwa was warned his rejection of the offer would be the end of his business .It is alleged that three SARS rogue unit agents visited the MTSA offices saying they were investigating the company s exports between 2003 and 2008. The documents said MTSA had showed the SARS officials all its export documentation, which had all been approved by Customs on the basis of bills of lading, railway waybills and exit stamps at the South African border.It is alleged that SARS then raised a VAT assessment of R228m against MTSA saying claimed exports for five years had not left the country and the company was liable for VAT. That was a shock to MTSA and Ayabatwa, because 95% of the goods were exported through RSA seaports or railway and there was no way to reject such documentation as valid proof of export. The remainder of the 55 exports left RSA by road with proper documentation which had duly been acquitted by Customs, reads the document.It further says the VAT assessment was raised despite the fact that the customs and excise division of SARS was satisfied with the proof of export provided by MTSA concerning the same consignment. MTSA objected to the assessment and SARS agreed to have the dispute adjudicated in a special tax court within six months and both parties agreed to the deal.It is alleged that SARS did not stick to the deal and went on to raid MTSA s factory with six warrants of arrests for three employees, Ayabatwa and his two sons, charging them with fraud involving R57m related to excise duties and VAT.SARS alleged that certain stamps used by Customs officials at the Beitbridge border post were reported to be lost or stolen prior to the dates on which the stamps were affixed to documentation submitted by MTSA.In June of 2009, after negotiations, a settlement was reached and the case was closed.In terms of the settlement, Ayabatwa and SARS settled for R60m. But of the amount, only R3m was paid to SARS and R57m was paid into a trust account of a Grahamstown based lawyer, Naran Dullabh.The money was paid into the account NN Dullabh &amp; Co Trust Account, Nedbank account number 01011032250.When contacted for comment to explain why money was paid into his account, Dullabh said: How do you know that? I will look at your email as I have thousands of emails and I will respond. Dullabh, however, failed to respond and could not be reached for comment.Makwakwa was unable to explain why Ayabatwa was instructed to pay the money into a private account. Please ask SARS about the case. I cannot comment on the case, Makwakwa said.A spokesperson for the revenue service said that all SARS payments must be paid only into an official account. SARS can neither deny or confirm these new allegations. Mr Jonas Makwakwa is on suspension and SARS has appointed a reputable legal firm to investigate him. We cannot comment until the investigation is complete, he said.Ayabatwa, who is now based in Dubai, declined to comment on the details of the case citing the non-disclosure agreement but confirmed he had paid millions into Dullabhs account and not SARS.According to a transnational crime networks research consultant, Charles Goredema, South Africa loses about R4bn annually in revenue to the illicit industry.Samuel Mungadze and Mthokozisi Dube | news@thenewage.co.za